TheMarist College Student Handbook, Academic Planner, Code of Student
Conduct and Resident Student Handbook serves as an agreement between the
College and students to honor the standards, policies and procedures set forth in the
following pages. By accepting to attend Marist College, a student is committed to
understanding and abiding by these standards, as well as accepting responsibility for
his/her actions. These policies have been established to provide a safe and comfortable
community for all Marist College community members.
MARIST COLLEGE HERITAGE
Our story begins in 1905 when the Marist Brothers, a congregation of Catholic Teaching Brothers,
purchased the McPherson Estate, just north of the city of Poughkeepsie.
The property was renamed Saint Ann’s Hermitage. Three years later, in 1908, the
Beck Estate, contiguous to the southern border of the McPherson property was also
purchased. These 110 acres form what is now the west side of the Marist College Campus.
This property served until 1952 as the headquarters of the Marist Brothers in the USA.
By 1929, The Brothers Training Center evolved into a junior college affiliated with
Fordham University and Catholic University. In 1946, the New York State Board of
Regents chartered Marian College as a Catholic College for the training of Marist
Brothers. This charter was amended in 1947 to allow lay men to pursue degrees and
again in 1966 to admit lay women.
In 1960, Marian College changed its name to Marist College. Ownership of the college
was transferred in 1969 from the Marist Brothers to the Marist College Educational
Corporation with an independent Board of Trustees, making it an independent liberal
arts college. Nonetheless, the spirit of Saint Marcellin Champagnat, founder of the
Marist Brothers, and the legacy of the Brothers continues to inspire and enrich the
academic life of the College. Eight Marist Brothers currently work at the College.
MARIST COLLEGE MISSION
Marist is dedicated to helping students develop the intellect and character required for
enlightened, ethical, and productive lives in the global community of the 21st century.
VISION STATEMENT
The College fulfills its mission by pursuing three ideals: excellence in education, the
importance of community, and the principle of service. These ideals were handed
down to us by the Marist Brothers who founded the College. Although Marist is
now an independent institution governed by a lay board of trustees, the three ideals
remain an integral part of the College mission.
The Marist ideal of excellence in education is achieved through an emphasis on quality
teaching and distinctive learning opportunities. At the undergraduate level, this begins
with a firm foundation in the liberal arts and sciences. Through core courses and their
major field of study, students are educated to think logically and creatively, be able to
synthesize and integrate methods and insights from a variety of disciplines, and effectively
express their opinions both orally and in writing. Students are encouraged to consider
the ethical dimensions of the subjects they study, and to become more aware of their own
values and the value implications of the choices they make in their public and private
lives. They are also exposed to cultures other than their own through on-campus programs
and study abroad.
In addition to offering undergraduate programs to traditional-age students, Marist has
a long history of serving the needs of adult learners for graduate, degree completion,
and continuing education programs. The College offers these students an educational
experience that meets the same high standards as our traditional undergraduate
programs. Marist allows these students to balance their education with work and
family responsibilities by offering flexible scheduling, alternative methods of program
delivery, and satellite campuses.
Marist seeks to distinguish itself by the manner in which it uses information technology to
support teaching, learning, and scholarship at both the undergraduate and graduate levels.
8
The College believes that by familiarizing our students with these advanced technologies,
it better prepares them to be productive members of society and lifelong learners.
The Marist ideal of community is based on the belief that we become a better institution
through the active involvement of faculty, staff, students, and alumni in the life of the
College. At a time when social bonds in our society are tenuous, we seek to develop a
relationship between our community members and the College that will last a lifetime.
We do this by nurturing the development and well-being of all our community members.
Of particular importance is assuring that the life of students outside the classroom is
supportive of the educational goals pursued inside the classroom. We strive to be a
diverse community but also one united by a shared commitment to the free exchange
of ideas, consideration of the opinions of others, and civility in all our interactions.
Finally, Marist believes in the dignity of every human being and is committed to the
principle of service. The College conducts programs for the disadvantaged, a wide variety
of programs that meet community needs, and programs that broaden access to education.
We encourage students, faculty, staff, and alumni to make service an important part of their
lives. Students are encouraged to become involved in campus activities, programs that
assist the less fortunate in our society, and service projects throughout the Hudson River
Valley and around the world. By sharing their time and talents, students help make Marist
a better place to live and learn while developing a sense of personal and civic responsibility.
CAMPUS SERVICES
From cashing a check to grabbing a snack or hitting the library, this section of the
Student Handbook is designed to help you move around campus a little easier.
“Things to Know” (A - Z)
Absences
Responsibility for class attendance and completion of assignments rests with the student, who should be encouraged to assume this responsibility by communicating with
instructors. Students who experience a serious illness or emergency that will result
in four or more consecutive days of absence should contact the Center for Advising
& Academic Services (CAAS), located in Donnelly 224 and at 845-575-3500, for
assistance. The CAAS will inform each instructor of the expected absence and of
any extenuating circumstances. Students will be required to provide to CAAS some
form of documentation substantiating the absence upon their return. They must also
contact the instructors to make arrangements to complete any missed work.
Each instructor maintains his/her own attendance policy which is typically stated
in the course syllabus. Students are responsible for knowing and complying with
these requirements.
Academic Advisors
Academic advisors are faculty or administrators assigned to students to discuss
academic and career goals, schedules for the upcoming semester, and opportunities
available to you in your major. Students may change their advisor at any time by
completing a change of advisor form and submitting it on-line or to the Center for
Advising & Academic Services, located in Donnelly 224, Ext. 3500.
9
Academic Learning Center
The Academic Learning Center (ALC), located in Library 331, offers the following
services free of charge:
Weekly review sessions for many courses;
Weekly drop-in sessions for select courses;
Paper proofreading, both day and evening hours;
Online proofreading is also available at http://ilearn.marist.edu/ under the proof
tab; and
Private tutoring is available for a small fee.
The FOCUS Program is administered through the ALC.
You may find out about these services by going to the ALC, by calling Ext. 3300,
by visiting their website at http://www.marist.edu/academics/alc/ or simply by
checking campus bulletin boards. Information and requests for review sessions may
be made through your instructors. The ALC staff trains and certifies all of its tutors.
Courses available through ALC include:
Career Planning and Decision Making – (one credit)
Critical Reading & Thinking – (one credit)
Freshman Forum – (one credit)
Introduction to College Writing – (no college credit/three equivalent credits
earned)
New Student Academic Seminars – (no credit)
Psychology of Self Development (three credits)
A description of the above courses may be found in your catalog.
Academic Standing
At the end of each semester, grades are reviewed to determine the academic standing
of each Marist student. A student is considered to be in good academic standing
if he or she is matriculated at Marist College, maintains a cumulative grade point
average of 2.00 or higher and a semester grade point average of 2.00 or higher, and
is considered to be making satisfactory progress toward a degree. Students failing
to meet these standards are subject to warning, academic probation, or academic
dismissal. Contact the Center for Advising & Academic Services, Donnelly 224,
Ext. 3500 for further details.
Access to Student Records
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 afford students certain rights
with respect to their education records. They are:
1.	 The right to inspect and review the student’s educational records.
2.	 The right to request the amendment of the student’s education records to ensure
that they are not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student’s
privacy or other rights.
3.	 The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained
in the student’s education record, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes
disclosure without consent.
10
4.	 The right to file with the U.S. Department of Education a complaint concerning
alleged failures by Marist College to comply with the requirements of FERPA.
5.	 The right to obtain a copy of Marist College’s education records policy. Copies
of this policy are available at the Registrar’s Office.
Marist will release at various times the following information unless requested in
writing not to do so by the student: student name, address, telephone number, date and
place of birth, major field of study, participation in officially recognized activities and
sports, weight and height of members of athletic teams, dates of attendance, degrees
and awards received and the most recent previous educational institution attended
by the student. Students must notify the Registrar in writing should they not want
information made available by filling out a form at the Office of the Registrar. For
more information, visit the website at http://www.marist.edu/registrar/ferpa.
Activities & Happenings
Interested in what’s happening on campus? To learn more about campus activities
and meetings sponsored by clubs and campus offices visit our campus activities
calendar at http://www.marist.edu/calendar/. Each semester, the College Activities
Office, located in the Student Center 373, publishes a semester calendar highlighting
various campus events sponsored by academic and administrative offices, student
government and clubs. In addition, the Office broadcasts to the College community
through the campus television service (TV 31) listings of events. Any organization
interested in having their program listed in these publications should contact the
College Activities Office.
The institutional calendar may be accessed through the Marist web page by clicking
on Events Calendar.
Address Change
Marist students are responsible for providing a current local address to the College.
Addresses can be updated in person at the Registrar’s office, by sending a letter, or
by printing, completing and mailing the On-line Student Address Change Form at
http://www.marist.edu/registrar/address.html.
ARMY ROTC
Located at St. Ann’s, Ext. 2591, AROTC is a program of study that is independent of
an undergraduate’s major at Marist. The program teaches cadets the leadership skills
and knowledge they will need to be commissioned as officers in the Active Army, Army
Reserves, or Army National Guard. Tuition scholarships are available if the student meets
the enrollment criteria.
ATHLETICS PROGRAM
See page 31.
Bookstore
The Marist College Bookstore is located on the lower level of the Student Center
and is run by Barnes and Noble. Hours of operation are from 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Monday through Thursday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM on Friday, and 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM
on Saturday with extended hours during the beginning of the Fall and Spring semesters
to facilitate the needs of students. The Bookstore is the only approved business
entity to conduct textbook buyback on the college campus and no other business
enterprise is allowed to operate at the College.
11
Campus Crime Statistics
The Advisory Committee on Campus Safety will provide upon request all campus crime
statistics as reported to the United States Department of Education. Marist College’s
annual campus crime information can be found at http://ope.ed.gov/security/search.
asp or at www.marist.edu/security/student.html or by calling the Office of Safety and
Security at 845-471-1822 or Ext. 2282.
CAMPUS Dining Services
Students residing in college housing are assigned a resident dining plan prior to their
arrival on campus. Students have the option to change their dining plan selection
within certain parameters according to their assigned location determined by the
College. Dining Plan changes must be made at the Office of Housing and Residential
Life by the second Friday of the semester. Should a student withdraw from resident
housing, the cost of his or her dining plan will be refunded accordingly.
Thrifty Cash Usage - The debit portion of your dining plan, Thrifty Cash, can be
used in any dining service location. Account balances transfer from the fall to the
spring semester only, provided that the student remains on a dining plan. If the dining
plan is dropped, the balance does not carry over.
Students may add funds to their Thrifty Cash account at the Office of Student Accounts
located in Donnelly Hall.
The Main Dining Hall, located in the Student Center, is open for traditional resident
dining service. Each meal is an “all you can eat” format and the dining room is open
for continuous service daily. The Main Dining Hall is open to all students holding a
valid Marist ID and who have arranged to participate in any of the dining plans offered.
The Cabaret, also in the Student Center, offers a full line of beverages, deli, salad &
soup bar, snacks, vegan and vegetarian offerings as well as the grill station.
Valley Café, located in the Cabaret, offers lunch every Tuesday, prepared with organic
and regional sustainable foods from the Hudson Valley and the tri-state area. Students
enrolled in a dining plan can use their plan for admission to the Café.
Donnelly and Dyson Coffee Shops offer full line of beverages, snacks and deli.
Hancock Center Café, located in the Hancock Center, offers hot and cold specialty
Starbucks beverages and a variety of pastries.
Jazzman’s Café, located in Upper West Cedar Townhouse, Building V, features a
grille station, hot and cold beverages, deli, salads, snacks and convenience items.
Library Coffee Bar offers beverages.
*Thrifty Cash, cash, Marist Money or credit card is accepted at the campus main
dining hall and all coffee shops and cafés.
Hours of Operations
Main Dining Hall
Monday through Thursday....................................................... 7:15 AM to 10:00 PM
Friday......................................................................................... 7:15 AM to 7:00 PM
Saturday
Continental...................................................................... 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM
Brunch..............................................................................11:00 AM to 2:00 PM
Afternoon Fare...................................................................2:00 PM to 4:30 PM
Dinner.................................................................................4:30 PM to 7:00 PM
12
Sunday
Continental...................................................................... 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM
Brunch..............................................................................11:00 AM to 2:00 PM
Afternoon Fare...................................................................2:00 PM to 4:30 PM
Dinner.................................................................................4:30 PM to 7:00 PM
The Cabaret
Monday through Friday........................................................... 8:30 AM to 1:00 AM
Saturday & Sunday.................................................................... 1:30 PM to 1:00 AM
Donnelly Coffee Shop
Monday through Thursday......................................................... 7:30 AM to 8:15 PM
Friday......................................................................................... 7:30 AM to 3:30 PM
DYSON Coffee Shop
Monday through Thursday......................................................... 7:30 AM to 8:15 PM
Friday......................................................................................... 7:30 AM to 3:30 PM
HANCOCK CENTER CAFÉ
Monday through Thursday......................................................... 7:30 AM to 8:15 PM
Friday......................................................................................... 7:30 AM to 3:30 PM
jazzman’s cafÉ
Monday through Thursday......................................................... 9:00 AM to 1:00 AM
Friday & Saturday...................................................................... 5:00 PM to 1:00 AM
Sunday..................................................................................... 12:00 PM to 1:00 AM
Library Coffee Bar
Monday through Thursday..................................................... 10:00 AM to 10:00 PM
Friday....................................................................................... 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM
Saturday....................................................................................................... CLOSED
Sunday........................................................................................1:00 PM to 9:00 PM
CAMPUS MINISTRY
Marist College Campus Ministry draws its strength and direction from God, the
religious traditions of our community and the heritage of the college founders, the
Marist Brothers.
We provide opportunities to meet the spiritual and religious needs of our student
community in responding to God’s presence in their lives.
We promote the integration of the whole person, body, mind and spirit, the affirmation
of the value of each person and the sacredness of all creation. We do so by building
and nourishing an interfaith community of celebration, service and education.
Small groups include Campus Christian Fellowship (Evangelical), Catholic Student
Association, Marist Hillel, Muslim Student Faith Group, Orthodox Christian Group,
and Quest (Main Line Christian).
Campus Ministry is responsible for the approval and sponsorship of any Religious/
Spiritual student group, event or practice.
Offices are located in Byrne House, Ext. 2275.
CAr Trouble
Marist College Safety and Security officers are available to “jump start” automobiles
and assist in car lockouts. Call Ext. 2282.
13
Center for Advising and Academic Services
The Center for Advising and Academic Services (CAAS) enjoys helping students
with academic issues as they work toward realizing their educational goals. Students
can come to our office, located in Donnelly 224 for the following reasons:
•	 To change their academic advisor. (Students can do this on-line through our
website too);
•	 To report a prolonged absence of four or more consecutive days;
•	 To request a leave of absence or withdrawal from Marist;
•	 To comply with probation requirements and to discuss other issues regarding
academic standing;
•	 To request a credit-overload for 19 or more credits;
•	 To answer questions regarding the Dean’s List;
•	 To receive clarification of academic policies or advice on handling academicrelated issues; and
•	 When there is a LEGITIMATE, VERIFIABLE situation regarding the waiver of
a published academic deadline.
Center for Career Services “SEIZE YOUR DREAM!”
The Center for Career Services (CCS), located in Library 332, Ext. 3547, offers a
variety of programs and information to assist students with career related experiences
including setting career goals, obtaining internships, creating competitive résumés
and cover letters and applying for full-time jobs or graduate school. Students are
encouraged to become involved with CCS early in their college experience to plan
effectively and make informed decisions. Services are available to matriculated
students and alumni.
Two Career and Internship Fairs are conducted at Marist each year. In addition,
many corporations and organizations visit the campus each year to offer workshops,
host information sessions and conduct on-campus recruiting. Professional attire is
required for recruiting events including Career Fairs. Marist also partners with
other regional colleges for an annual Teacher Recruitment Day in the spring and a
Federal/Government Jobs Fair.
Workshops are held throughout the academic year on various topics including Networking, Interviewing and Résumé preparation. Walk-in hours are held on Tuesday
mornings from 9:30 a.m. to noon and on Wednesday and Thursday afternoons from
1:30 to 4:00 p.m. Services are available both in person and on-line to assure students
have access to CCS offerings. Students should also register on NACElink, the CCS
recruiting database to learn of special programs, on-campus interviewing and for
postings of internships and full-time job opportunities.
Students interested in graduate school are encouraged to meet with the Graduate
School Advisor in the CCS. The advisor will guide students through the components of the graduate school process including decision-making, identifying
programs, taking admissions examinations, writing personal statements and
completing the application process. For more information, visit their web site at
http://www.marist.edu/careerservices/.
14
Check Cashing/ATM
There are two ATM cash machines on campus: one in Donnelly Hall and the other
in the Student Center across from College Activities.
The Business Office provides a check cashing service during the Fall and Spring
semesters every Friday from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM, at the cashier window located
in Donnelly Hall, Room 210. All checks must be made payable to “Marist College
Cash” and NO checks will be cashed without a Marist Student ID Card - no other ID
will be accepted. The check cashing limit is $100.00 per student per check cashing
day. Third party checks are only cashed if they are from the immediate family of
the student or staff. Checks written from one student to another cannot be accepted.
Classification of Students
A student’s class standing is determined by the number of credits earned as follows:
Freshman
0 - 29 Credits
Sophomore	 30 - 59 Credits
Junior
60 - 89 Credits
Senior
90 or more Credits
Clubs & Organizations
Students can find a complete listing of all chartered clubs and organizations on
campus by visiting www.marist.edu/studentlife/clubs.html on the Marist web site.
In addition, students are invited to attend an Activities Fair held every September and
January, where all campus clubs and organizations are represented.
College Ring
The Marist College ring is considered a symbol of academic achievement; therefore,
certain academic requirements must be met before a student can order one for reception
at the College Ring Ceremony.
A student is eligible to order a ring at the end of the sophomore year provided he
or she has completed 45 credits and is registered as a full-time student. Full-time
registered students will receive their rings during their junior year.
Transfers who have completed 60 credits at another institution are eligible to order
a ring. However, before they can receive their rings, they must have completed one
semester and must be in good standing at Marist. For further information, contact
the Office of Students Affairs, Rotunda 388, Ext. 2517.
Commuter Services
The Commuter Lounge is located on the 2nd floor of the Student Center. The Lounge
offers an opportunity for commuters to relax, watch television, socialize and work in
small groups on academic projects. In addition, there is a small refrigerator, microwave,
telephone and comfortable seating for the convenience of all commuters.
The Assistant Director of First Year Programs & Leadership Development’s office
is located in the Commuter Lounge.
Computer Labs
Registered Marist students have access to several computer labs on campus.
Detailed information about software and hardware available in each lab, as well
as the lab location and hours can be obtained by visiting the Marist web site at
www.marist.edu/it/desktop/labs.html.
15
Counseling Center
The Counseling Center is located in the Health and Wellness Center, Student
Center 352, Ext. 3314. Services offered by professional staff include confidential
individual counseling for personal or emotional problems, referrals, and workshops.
Find out more by visiting the web site at http://www.marist.edu/counsel/index.html
Dean’s List
The Marist College’s Dean’s List published on-line, records the names of all full-time
undergraduate students who have demonstrated academic excellence in the previous
semester. In order to qualify for this special distinction, students must earn a semester
grade point average of at least 3.600, having completed a minimum of 12 academic
credits graded on the A-F scale. In addition, students who earn grades of “I,” “D,”
“F” or “WF” are not named to the list. Any student who meets these criteria will
have a Dean’s List notation permanently recorded on official College transcripts and
receive a Dean’s List Certificate.
EMERGING LEADERS PROGRAM (ELP)
The Emerging Leaders Program is a popular non-credit certificate program, which
provides students with varied and unique opportunities to define, discover and develop
their leadership style. Students receive a certificate for each workshop they complete.
Those who complete five or more workshops during the academic year receive a
Leadership Certificate. At the end of senior year, participants receive a Leadership
Transcript outlining all of the workshops completed during their time at Marist.
Program participants also have an opportunity to earn lifelong membership into the
Marist Chapter of Sigma Alpha Pi, the National Society of Leadership and Success.
Final Exam Schedule
Each semester students can review the final exam schedule by visiting the Marist
web site at http://www.marist.edu/registrar/finals.html.
Fire Emergency Procedures
All buildings are equipped with fire alarm systems. For your safety, whenever the fire
alarm sounds, evacuate the building immediately. Fire alarm pull stations are located
near the exits. Never use the elevators during a fire alarm. Treat all alarms as
the real thing – assume nothing!
FIRST YEAR PROGRAMS AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (fyp&ld)
The Office of FYP&LD is dedicated to assisting traditional-aged, first year undergraduate students in their transition to Marist by addressing the social, cognitive and
emotional challenges they encounter. New students are guided in their intellectual
and personal development through campus wide activities such as Orientation,
Welcome Week, and the Emerging Leaders Program, as well as through a variety of
academic and social activities involving small group and one-on-one interactions. The
Office fosters the development of undergraduate students so that they may succeed
academically, become influential leaders, and develop into well-balanced citizens of
the Marist and World community.
Health Services and Wellness Center
The College maintains a campus Health Service which is located in Student Center
352, Ext. 3270. It is staffed by a physician, physician’s assistants/nurse practitioners
and registered nurses. The hours of Health Services are Monday through Friday from
9:00 AM to 9:30 PM and Saturday and Sunday from 12:00 noon to 5:00 PM. No
overnight care is available on campus.
16
Health Services provides treatment of common problems such as acute illness, blood
pressure checks, nutrition counseling, gynecological care, allergy injections, suture
removal and other miscellaneous functions. Consultation and referrals to off-campus
health care providers, as well as health education, are also provided.
The Health Services facilities are available to all Marist students, whether they are
resident or commuter, full or part time. Students are seen on an appointment basis,
with the exception of emergencies, which are treated immediately. There is no fee
for examination, consultation, or referral.
When a medical problem of an emergency nature arises, after Health Services hours,
a resident student should contact the Resident Assistant or Resident Director to assure
that the proper medical attention is acquired.
Please Note - New York State Public Health Law 2165 requires College students to
demonstrate proof of immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles).
Students will not be permitted to register for classes or remain on campus unless this
information is provided to Health Services.
Help Desk
The Help Desk is a resource for you to use when you have a problem with computers
or telephones at Marist. The Help Desk is open from 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday
through Friday, to help students with Marist accounts, networks and systems. It is the
focal point for all questions or issues with Marist’s Information Technology Department. You can drop by the Help Desk in Donnelly Hall or call Ext. HELP (4357).
housing & residential life
The Office of Housing & Residential Life is located in Rotunda 387. The residential
life program at Marist is based upon the philosophy of providing students with a safe,
healthy and attractive living environment that supports and supplements the educational
mission of the College. Students in residence must be enrolled for a minimum of 12
academic credits for the semester in which they are housed. All residence areas are
staffed by professional Residential Directors and undergraduate Resident Assistants.
The Office of Housing & Residential Life is open Monday through Friday from 8:00
AM to 5:00 PM and during the summer from 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM. In case of an
emergency, professional Resident Directors are on duty 365 days per year and can be
contacted through the Office of Safety and Security at ext. 2282.
Identification Cards
As a Marist College student, you are required to possess a valid Marist identification
card. Your Marist ID card is the property of Marist College and must be surrendered
to any College official upon request.
Student identification cards are made in the Marist Card Services Office, located in
Donnelly 241. There is no charge for your first ID.
Your Marist ID Card is non-transferable. It:
•	 is your personal College identification card;
•	 is your College library card;
•	 grants you admission to College activities and events;
•	 grants you check cashing privileges at Marist College;
•	 enables access to Marist Money services;
•	 is your Dining Service card; and
•	 secures residence hall access.
17
A lost or stolen Marist ID Card should be reported immediately to the Office of Safety
and Security. Once the card is reported lost, the account is frozen and protected. The
next business day, during office hours, the card holder should have a new ID Card
processed at the Marist Card Services Office for a fee of $15.00. Once a new card is
issued, the lost card cannot be used and is considered no longer valid.
International Students
It is the responsibility of international students to keep their passports, visas and other
documents in good order and up-to-date, and report any change of address. Information
concerning immigration matters, together with the common forms and certificate blanks,
is available in the Registrar’s Office, Donnelly 203, Ext. 3250.
Intersession Registration at Marist
Summer session registration is processed through the Office of the Registrar located
in Donnelly 203, Ext. 3250. There are 3-, 6-, and 12-week sessions. You may take
up to a total of nine (9) credits for all summer sessions. For further information visit
their web site at http://www.marist.edu/summer.
Winter classes are also processed through the office of the Registrar. Classes are offered in
one 10-day seminar; you may take up to 3 credits during intersession. For further information
visit their web site at http://www.marist.edu/winter.
INVOLUNTARY WITHDRAWAL POLICY
A detailed description of the policy and procedures can be found in Section XIV of the Student
Code of Conduct as well as the following websites: http://www.marist.edu/healthservices/,
http://www.marist.edu/counseling/, http://www.marist.edu/studentlife/studentconduct, and
http://www.marist.edu/housing/.
Library
The 83,000 square foot James A. Cannavino Library houses in excess of 200,000
volumes of printed books and periodicals, over 5,000 audiovisual materials, and
provides access to more than 30,000 periodicals and texts online.
Students are encouraged to utilize the Library’s extensive computerized holding and federated searching tools. The Library provides access to a large
number of electronic indexes and full-text periodicals from its web page at
http://www.marist.edu/library and http://library.marist.edu. These indexes and
periodicals are available from student rooms and computer labs - any PC connected
to the campus network. Students may also access indexes and periodicals from home
computers through the “Off Campus Access” link found on the Library’s home page.
Thirty-five laptops are available for in-Library use to assist students in research.
Reference librarians and support staff are available to assist students with their
information needs for course work, research or recreational purposes. Assistance is
available at the Library’s Reference Desk, by phone at Ext. 3292, and by e-mail at
library.reference@marist.edu.
LIBRARY HOURS
Library hours will be posted at the Library entrance, in the residence halls, and in
all buildings on campus as well as on the library home page at:
http://library.marist.edu/about/hours.html.
Changes in hours for holidays and vacation will also be posted on the Library home
page and in campus buildings.
18
Lost and Found
Anyone finding an article that has been lost should promptly bring it to the Office of
Safety and Security located in Donnelly 201, Ext. 2282.
The Office of Safety and Security provides, free of charge, the use of electrical
engravers and property identification stickers.
Marist INTERNATIONAL Program
For over 45 years the Marist International Program (MIP) has offered students the
opportunity to enhance their studies through engagement with international issues
and diverse cultures around the world. MIP offers a variety of short-term semester
and academic-year experiences in Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, and
Africa. Participation in a study and/or internship abroad broadens horizons and helps
to prepare students for a life and career in an increasingly global society.
For information on study abroad, and/or cross-cultural opportunities on campus, call
Ext. 3330, or visit the web site at http://www.marist.edu/international/.
Marist Money
Marist Money is a debit card (College ID card) which allows you to pay into an
account, and then draw from that account as you charge purchases on and off campus.
Campus services that accept the Marist Money account are: College bookstore, main
dining hall, campus coffee shops, Jazzman’s Café, post office, copy center, FOXNET
telephone services, computer store, billiards room, health services, campus vending
machines, video rental and library. Off-campus services that accept Marist Money
are located nearby to the college and include retailers such as dining and convenience
stores. Alcohol and tobacco products and lottery tickets may not be purchased using
Marist Money. For more information and an updated listing of services that accept
Marist Money, visit the web site at http://www.marist.edu/maristmoney.
Math Lab
The Math Lab is located on the lower level of Lowell Thomas, in the alcove near
the elevators and is staffed by full time math professors who are available to help
students with any math questions, problems, or concepts. Days and times are posted
each semester.
Medical Excuse Policy
Responsibility for class attendance and completion of assignments rests primarily
with the student, who should be encouraged to assume this responsibility by communicating with instructors, or, if the absence is more than four (4) days, with the
Center for Advising and Academic Services, Donnelly 224, Ext. 3500.
19
Mentors
The Coordinators and the Assistant Director in the Office of First Year Programs
and Leadership Development (FYP&LD) serve as Mentors to traditional-aged
undergraduate students entering Marist. Mentors are experienced professionals
dedicated to providing each student with a successful start to his/her college career.
Mentors live in the residence areas and are assigned to work with new freshmen and
transfer students and those whose grades are below the College’s academic standards.
The Assistant Director mentors Commuter students. The staff provides academic
assistance by helping students with time management skills, pre-registration questions,
and any other issues that impact academic performance. In addition to coordinating
Orientation and Welcome Week, FYP Coordinators enhance the Marist experience
by offering a wide variety of programs such as the Faculty Supper Series, Red Fox
Rumbles, Emerging Leaders Workshops, and other opportunities for student growth,
development and enjoyment. They also work closely with Resident Directors and
other Student Affairs staff to help build a solid sense of community.
Post Office
All resident students have post office boxes located at the Post Office on the second
floor of the Student Center and Champagnat Hall complex. The Post Office is fully
functional and offers a wide variety of postal services.
Campus post office boxes are available to full-time commuters. All College
correspondence will be mailed to on-campus mailboxes during the fall and spring
semesters; NOT to home addresses.
Post Office Service Window Hours:
Monday - Thursday.............................................................. 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM
Friday.................................................................................... 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM
Saturday................................................................................ 9:00 AM to 12 noon
Student Mailbox Area Hours:
Monday - Thursday.............................................................. 8:30 AM to 7:30 PM
Friday.................................................................................... 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM
Saturday................................................................................ 8:30 AM to 3:00 PM
Sunday....................................................................................12 noon to 3:00 PM
Recreation & Fitness Center
The James J. McCann Recreation Center is the hub of athletics at Marist. All
students are urged to participate in as many of its activities as they wish. Intercollegiate
athletics, physical education and recreational activities are housed in this area. Special
events to which the outside public is invited are held in the Center throughout the year.
The Red Fox Fitness Center, a 20,000 sq. ft. addition to The McCann Center, includes
a 7,000 sq. ft. strength, conditioning and aerobics area, field house, two locker rooms,
and a student center. The Fitness Center also houses a Cardio Theatre, featuring 35
new pieces of Precor cardio equipment each equipped with a 12” flat panel television.
20
ReCYCLING and sustainable CAMPUS initiatives
The College’s strategic plan calls for the implementation of environmentally
sustainable practices to raise awareness, to use as a teaching tool and to establish
lifelong behaviors supporting the environment. Marist College strives to promote
sustainability across all areas of the College – through education in the classroom,
in operations and procedures, communication and through student development
opportunities.
For more information about Marist College recycling and sustainable campus
initiatives, visit the College’s website at www.marist.edu/studentlife/recycle/.
Registrar’s Office
The Registrar’s Office maintains and stores the academic record of each Marist
student. The office is located in Donnelly 203, Ext. 3250. Services provided by the
Registrar’s Office include:
•	 Enrollment Verifications
•	 Transcript of Records
•	 Transfer Credit Evaluations
•	 Degree Audits
•	 Graduation Requirements
•	 Registrations
•	 Freshman Schedules
•	 Processes name and address changes
They also process changes of declarations of majors, minors or certificates; maintain
the semester’s course listings; provide Academic Calendars and Final Exam Schedules;
and maintain the semester’s classroom assignments.
Safety and Security
The Office of Safety and Security at Marist College provides a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week
service to the College community, its visitors and guests. The Office of Safety and
Security works as a liaison with local fire, police and rescue agencies. All Marist
Security officers have Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (AED & CPR) certification.
The Office of Safety and Security is located in Donnelly 201, and can be reached by
calling 845-575-3000, Ext. 2282 or 845-471-1822. In emergency only dial 5555.
STUDENT NIGHTTIME AUXILIARY PATROL (SNAP)
Under the auspices of the Office of Safety and Security, SNAP is a student-run oncampus walking escort service available to students upon request. Call Ext. 2282.
Solicitation Policy
No solicitation of any nature will be permitted on campus unless prior permission
has been obtained from the appropriate office:
	 The College Activities Office will process all requests from students and student
clubs or organizations.
	 The Academic Vice President’s Office will process requests which come from
academic departments or divisions of the College or from faculty committees.
	 The Business Office of the College will process requests received from offcampus organizations or salespeople.
21
Requests should be made in writing including desirable initiation and termination
times and dates. The approving office will indicate in writing the specific location(s)
where solicitation may take place.
Solicitation door-to-door in residence halls or office-to-office in campus facilities is
rarely, if ever, permitted. Specific guidelines for student solicitation may be obtained
from the Activities Office located in the Student Center 373.
Special Services
Marist College, along with all institutions of Higher Education, is required by law to
provide equal access to qualified individuals with disabilities. Marist College is committed to providing individuals with disabilities equal access in regard to admission,
access to services, academic courses, treatment or other activities. In accordance with
the provision of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 197 and the American with
Disabilities Act of 1990, the College strives in its policies and practices to provide
full access to individuals with disabilities in all aspects of college life.
The Office of Special Services provides a comprehensive range of academic support
services and accommodations that promote full integration of students with disabilities
into the mainstream college environment. The types of accommodations provided
vary depending on the nature of the disability and may include textbooks in alternate
formats, readers, note-takers, testing modifications such as extended time and a quiet
location as well as the use of technological aids and equipment.
Students seeking additional information on procedures for determining and implementing accommodations should contact the Office of Special Services, Donnelly
226, Ext. 3274, or visit them on the web at: http://www.marist.edu/specserv/.
SECTION 504 or ADA Grievance Procedure
If any student believes that his or her rights under 504 or the ADA have been violated,
he or she may bring forward a complaint. Issues that can be the subject of a complaint
in accordance with this policy include, but are not limited to, a denial of a requested
accommodation, the inadequacy of an accommodation, the inaccessibility of a program
or activity due to disability, or discrimination or harassment based on disability.
Students seeking additional information on Section 504 or ADA grievance procedures
should contact the Office of Special Services, Donnelly 226, Ext. 3274, or visit them
on the web at: http://www.marist.edu/specserv/.
Student Audit
Student audits can be an invaluable tool in helping students determine and maintain
satisfactory progress toward fulfilling degree requirements. These audits list
requirements that have been fulfilled and those remaining to be fulfilled, and they are
updated monthly. Students can access their audits by visiting the Marist web site at:
http://www.marist.edu/~courinfo/audiwarn.html.
22
STUDENT CONDUCT
The Office of Student Conduct (OSC) is located in Rotunda 389, Ext. 3514. OSC
informs students of the rights and responsibilities as members of the Marist community; involves students, faculty and staff in administering the judicial process; and
assists all members of the campus community to live and learn in an environment that
is orderly, peaceful, and supportive of individual growth and development. Services
provided by the OSC include:
•	 Publishing the Code of Student Conduct to help members of the community
understand behavioral expectations, rights and responsibilities.
•	 Reviewing all Incident Reports to determine where disciplinary cases will be
handled.
•	 Providing assistance to victims of conduct violations.
•	 Conducting Disciplinary Conferences and Hearings.
•	 Acting as advocates for students educating them on their rights.
•	 Selecting, training and appointing Faculty, Staff and Student Justices to various
hearing panels and review boards.
Student financial services
The Marist Office of Student Financial Services, located in Donnelly 200, Ext. 3230,
is committed to providing affordability options and managing the equitable distribution of student aid funds. The office coordinates student employment both on and
off campus and is responsible for student billing. They are dedicated to promoting
accessibility through personalized service and integrity.
Student Government Association
The Student Government Association (SGA), located in the Student Center 347,
Ext. 2206, is the institutional body charged addressing student governance issues at
Marist College in the hope of preserving and strengthening a positive relationship
among all groups and members within the college community. This mission is
fulfilled through a clear articulation and advocacy of student concerns, issues and
hopes. SGA meetings are open to all students and meetings are held every Wednesday
at 11:00 a.m. in the SGA Office. For more information visit the SGA website at
http://www.marist.edu/sga.
In line with this mission, the responsibilities of Student Government include the
following:
1.	 Representing the Student Body through decision making that affects the entire
Marist College Community or any one student group or organization.
2.	 Communicating and synthesizing information and concerns among the students,
Administration and Faculty.
3.	 Chartering clubs and organizations and overseeing their performance thus ensuring
their mission is fulfilled with the best interest of the students in mind.
4.	 Appointing students to positions on the Executive Board, Judicial Board and other
campus-wide committees, while additionally holding elections to fill representative
positions.
5.	 Appointing, guiding and directing the Financial Board, which in turn appropriates
funds from the Student Activity Fee to clubs and organizations.
SGA consists of three branches of government: the Executive Branch, Judicial Branch
and the Legislative Branch.
23
Executive Branch is presided over by the Student Body President and serves as an
advisory part of the SGA. The Student Body President, upon approval of the Senate,
appoints all of these positions. The members consist of: the Student Body President,
Executive Vice President, Vice President of Academic Affairs, Vice President of
Student Programming, Vice President of Club Affairs, Vice President of Student
Life, Vice President of Athletic Affairs, Director of Public Relations, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Information Officer, Elections Commissioner, Parliamentarian, and
Executive Secretary.
Student Body President acts as a student who represents the interests and opinions
of the student body when dealing with issues, concerns and matters directly affecting
Marist students. He/she likewise presents the views of the administration, faculty and
staff to the entire student body while striving to create a strong communication network
between all. The Student Body President strives to make the Marist Community a
place where all people work and live with respect for each other. The Student Body
President chairs all Executive Board meetings, as well as acts as a representative on
the Board of Trustees and the Senate.
Executive Vice President is an appointed position charged with fulfilling the duties
and obligations of the President in the event that position is vacated.
Student Academic Council (SAC) is presided over by the Vice President for
Academic Affairs and provides leadership in pursuit of the academic objectives of
the student body. SAC works to establish firm lines of communication and a positive
working relationship among students and both academic schools and faculty members,
and explores avenues of curricular growth and development. SAC also assists in the
promotion of academically-related student programs and proposals.
Student Life Association (SLA) is presided over by the Vice President for Student
Life and consists of resident and commuter representatives, as well as the president
of each Residence Hall Council (RHC). This association works to promote activities
that provide unity among commuter and resident students, and facilitate all matters
pertaining to the well-being and interests of all students.
Athletic Affairs Council (AAC) is presided over by the Vice President for Athletic
Affairs and provides leadership in the pursuit of the athletic activities for the student
body. The AAC acts as a liaison between Marist College Athletics and the SGA and
provides student oversight of the Intramural and Club Sports Program.
Student Programming Council (SPC) serves as the entertainment and programming arm under SGA. The purpose of SPC is to provide quality entertainment and
educational programs to all students, administration, faculty, and staff. Programming
consists of lectures, performing arts, comedy, concerts, music, novelty acts, and trips.
The Vice President of Student Programming appoints a Vice President, Secretary,
Chief Financial Officer, Campus Concerns Officer, and two Publicity Officers who
help direct general board members.
Council of Clubs is presided over by the Vice President for Club Affairs and consists
of all chartered clubs and organizations at the College. The Council is divided into six
categories, with each area representing a particular type of interest. These councils
consist of Co-curricular, Greek, Honorary, Production, Social/Service and Sports.
Elections Commissioner is an appointed position charged with adhering to the SGA
Constitution and by-laws in order to facilitate free and fair elections.
Financial Board is presided over by the Chief Finance Officer (CF0), and has the
fiduciary responsibility of overseeing the allocation of Student Activity Fee monies
24
to chartered clubs and organizations. The full Financial Board is comprised of the
CFO, Assistant CFO, four appointed students and an administrator appointed by the
Vice President of Student Affairs. The Financial Board is responsible for funding
all clubs and organizations sanctioned by SGA.
Public Relations Board is presided over by the Director of Public Relations and
provides an open channel of communication between SGA and the Marist Community.
Public Relations are responsible for providing pertinent information to students
through on-campus media and advertising SGA events.
Judicial Branch is presided over by the Chief Justice and has jurisdiction over
election validity, club sanction appeals, parking ticket appeals, governing document
interpretations, and removal of student officers. The role of the Judicial Branch is
to maintain equity and equality within SGA and review the decisions made by the
Executive and Legislative Branches.
Legislative Branch, also known as the Senate, is presided over by the Speaker of
the Senate and is the voting arm of SGA responsible for passing legislation, approving appointments to other SGA positions, and providing oversight of the Executive
Branch. The Senate is composed of the presidents of the Freshmen, Sophomore, Junior
and Senior Classes, five resident senators, and two commuter senators. Legislative
Branch members are encouraged to chair and sit on committees that address campus
issues that affect students.
TAXI SERVICES
Taxicabs that operate in the City and Town of Poughkeepsie must be licensed and
have a current license sticker for the current year attached to the rear bumper of the
cab. Most cabs are licensed in both the City and the Town. The license requirement
is determined where the taxicab picks up fares, not where fares are dropped off.
If you call a cab from Marist College to another location, the taxicab must be licensed
in the Town of Poughkeepsie.
If you call a cab to pick you up at a location in the City of Poughkeepsie, the taxicab
must be licensed in the City.
If you are dropped off in the City of Poughkeepsie, you have the right to receive a
receipt for your fare upon request.
Taxicabs are forbidden to solicit passengers. Town of Poughkeepsie taxi drivers must
stay with their vehicles at all times. The City of Poughkeepsie taxi drivers are not
allowed to solicit passengers from outside the vehicle.
A City of Poughkeepsie taxicab shall not carry any other person then the first person
employing the cab unless the first person consents to the acceptance of an additional
passenger. The Town of Poughkeepsie does not have any similar provision or
regulation for taxicabs.
Marist College has designated the Donnelly Parking Lot for taxicab companies
to pick up and drop off students between 7:00 PM and 3:00 AM. This will give
Security the opportunity to monitor the cabs and prevent unwanted noise (beeping)
in the residence areas. You have the option to request a member of the SNAP escort
service to walk you back to your residence by calling Ext. 7627.
Please Note: Marist Security has no authority to monitor taxi licenses or take action
against owners/operators in regard to violations of City or Town Laws; however, we
will assist you in filing a complaint with the appropriate municipal agency.
25
Vehicle Registration and Parking
The Office of Safety and Security, located in Donnelly 201, Ext. 2282 is responsible
for the implementation and enforcement of the parking and vehicle registration policy.
In order to facilitate traffic flow on the Marist campus, the following policies have
been established:
•	 Resident students with less than 30 earned credits are not permitted to have a
vehicle on campus. Any exceptions must be approved by the Director of Safety
and Security.
•	 Student parking is confined to those vehicles registered with the Office of Safety
and Security and to which a parking permit has been issued.
•	 Vehicles without permits are subject to booting or towing at the owner’s expense
as well as traffic citations.
•	 Student parking permits will be issued for a designated parking lot and will be
good for that lot, only. Vehicles parked in other than designated lots will be treated
as vehicles without permits.
•	 There are a limited number of parking spaces on campus. Only that number of
permits equaling spaces will be issued on a first come, first serve basis.
When applying for parking permits, the following information and documents are required:
a.	 Driver’s license
b.	 Vehicle registration
c.	 Vehicle description
d.	 College I.D. number
e.	 Local address
Handicap parking spaces are restricted to those vehicles displaying a state, county
or town handicap parking permit.
Vehicle operators may be asked to verify that the handicapped permit is issued for
their use. Fraudulent use of handicapped permit may result in revocation of all
parking privileges.
In addition to the above, the following parking restrictions apply:
•	 Parking is not permitted in areas other than marked parking spaces. Parking in
restricted areas subjects the vehicle to traffic citations, booting and towing at the
owner’s expense. Restricted areas include, but are not limited to: fire zones, no
parking area, cross walks, fire hydrants, handicap zones, and restricted permit
parking areas.
•	 Visitor parking is reserved for the use of off-campus visitors only.
•	 With the exception of resident student parking areas, overnight parking is not
permitted.
•	 Violations of this parking policy may result in revocation of parking privileges.
Writing Center
The Writing Center, located in Library 330, offers one-on-one tutoring, free of
charge, to the Marist Community. It is staffed by faculty and its mission is “to help all
members of the Marist College community to become more versatile, more successful,
and more self-sufficient writers.” The Writing Center can be reached on Ext. 2735.
26
Problem-Solver At A Glance
For
Office
Where
Ext.
Absence – four or more
consecutive days
Advising & Academic
Services and Instructors
Donnelly 224
3500
Absence - less than
a week
Individual Instructor
Academic Issues
Academic Advisor or
Advising & Academic
Services
Donnelly 224
3500
Adding a Course
Academic Advisor
Books
Campus Ministry
Bookstore
Director
3260
2275
Career Planning
Career Services
Change in Address
Change in Courses/in
major field
Check Cashing
Class Cancellations
Registrar’s Office
Student Center
Byrne House
Library 3rd
floor
Donnelly 203
Academic Advisor
Club Activities
Club Sports/Intramurals
Code of Conduct
Counseling Services
Business Office
---------College Activities
Director of Club &
Recreational Sports
Office of Student
Conduct
Counseling Center
Financial Aid/
Scholarships
Orientation
Coordinators
Emerging Leaders
Grades
Registrar’s Office/
Degree Audit
Marist Dining
Special Services
Student Financial
Services
Student Financial
Services
First Year Programs &
Leadership
Development
Registrar’s Office
Health Services
Health Services Office
Housing Requests
Housing Office
Degree Requirements
Dining Services
Disability Services
Fees/Bills
3547
3250
Donnelly 210
3312
---------575-5500
Student Center
3279
373
McCann
2584
Rotunda 389
3514
Student Center
352
3314
Donnelly 203
3250
Student Center
Donnelly 226
5100
3274
Donnelly 200
3231
Donnelly 200
3230
Rotunda 388
3517
Donnelly 203
Student Center
352
Rotunda 387
3250
3270
3307
27
I.D. Cards
Marist Money Card
Office
Donnelly 241
3550
Intersession Classes
(summer and winter)
Registrar’s Office
Donnelly 203
3250
Advising & Academic
Services
Safety & Security
Housing Office
Post Office
Marist Money Card
Office
Donnelly 224
3500
Donnelly 201
Rotunda 387
Student Center
2282
3307
2131
Donnelly 241
3550
McCann Center General
Equipment Room Court
Reservations
Athletic Director/
Assistants Staff
McCann
Center
Newspaper (Student)
The Circle
Parking Appeals
Student Government
Part-Time Jobs
(On or Off Campus)
Security/Safety
Director of Student
Employment
Director
LT 211b
Student Center
347
Student Government
SGA Officers
Summer Classes NOT at
Marist (permission only)
Leave of Absence
Lost & Found
Lost Keys
Mail
Marist Money
Transcripts
Tutoring
Veterans Information
Withdrawing from
College
Withdrawing from a
Course
Withdrawing from
Housing
Work-study
3304
3699
2301
2429
2206
Donnelly 200
3181
Donnelly 201
Student Center
347
2282
Registrar’s Office
Donnelly 203
3250
Registrar’s Office
Academic Learning
Center
Registrar’s Office
Advising & Academic
Services

Donnelly 203

3250

Library 331

3300

Donnelly 203

3250

Donnelly 224

3500

Registrar’s Office

Donnelly 203

3250

Housing Office

Rotunda 387

3307

Director of Student
Employment

Donnelly 200

3181

2206

Student Center
3279
373
EMERGENCY.................................................................................... 5555
Yearbook

28

College Activities

POLICIES

In this section, you will find all the policies that allow our community to run smoothly.

Academic Honesty POLICY
Adherence to ordinary principles of academic honesty is expected of every Marist
student. Work presented to instructors in the fulfillment of course requirements,
papers, assignments, examination answers etc. is to be the student’s own work. Student
work must be free of plagiarism.* Accessing another student’s computer file, with
or without consent also constitutes plagiarism.
* NOTE: Marist College adopts the position of Modern Language Association Handbook, New York, 1977, par. 6 “Plagiarism may take the form of repeating another’s
sentences as your own, adopting a particularly apt phrase as your own, paraphrasing
someone else’s line of thinking in the development of a thesis as though it were your
own. In short, to plagiarize is to give the impression that you have written or thought
something that you have borrowed from another.”
1.	 An arrangement by which work is to be submitted for credit in two or more courses
must have the prior approval of the instructors involved.
2.	 Each student is to use the library, computer facilities and other college facilities
in such a way that equal access of others to the resources for study and research
is ensured.
3.	 Violations could result in a penalty up to an including the grade of “F” and/or
suspension or expulsion from the College.
4.	 A student who cooperates with one or more other students in a dishonest act is
subject to the same penalties.
5.	 Those who witness an act of dishonesty are expected to report it to the proper
authority with the full assurance that confidentiality will be maintained.

Procedures and Appeals for Allegations of
Academic Dishonesty
1.	 Alleged dishonest act is identified and the student(s) notified.

Option A

Faculty member imposes a penalty up to a grade of “F,” and notifies the Dean of his/
her action. If the student wishes to appeal the sanction, the Dean of Division/School
handles the appeal. The Dean may recommend additional penalty up to suspension
or expulsion from the College. The Committee on Academic Honesty will hear a
final appeal.

Option B

Faculty member may impose a course penalty and recommend to the Dean of Division/
School suspension or expulsion from the College. The Dean will take a position on
the faculty member’s recommendation. The Academic Vice President will hear the
final appeal of this decision.
The Committee on Academic Honesty is made up of five members. The committee will
be constituted as follows: two voting faculty members from the Academic Standards
Committee, the Director of the Center for Advising & Academic Services, the Student
Body President, and the Student Academic Committee President.
29

Procedure for Appealing Grades and Other
Academic Problems
The individual instructor is responsible for establishing standards, consistent with the
guidelines established in the college catalogue, and for assigning grades to student
work. Furthermore, faculty are required to set forth, clearly and in writing, at the
beginning of a course, a description of the course requirements and the basis upon
which the student’s grade will be determined. If a student feels that appropriate
procedures have not been followed, or he/she has been graded unfairly, they should
observe the following appeal procedure:
1.	 The student should first meet with the faculty member who assigned the disputed
grade to discuss the complaint and ask for an explanation. If the student is unable
to contact the faculty member in a timely manner, the student should contact the
appropriate Dean.
2.	 If after discussion with the faculty member the student is still not satisfied, he/
she should make an appointment to speak to the appropriate Dean.
3.	 If the student wishes the Dean to make a formal inquiry, the student must request
this in writing and explain the basis of the complaint. The Dean will forward the
complaint to the faculty member and request a written reply. (This initial written
appeal must be made no later than 3 weeks into the semester following the disputed
grade.)
4.	 Upon receipt of the faculty member’s written reply the Dean may choose to conduct
a hearing with the faculty member and the student to clarify the facts of the case.
5.	 The Dean will then recommend a course of action, in writing, to the faculty
member, and send a copy to the student. The faculty member will then inform
the student in writing of his/her decision.
6.	 If the student is not satisfied with the course of action recommended by the Dean or
the faculty member he/she may appeal in writing to the Academic Vice President.
The Academic Vice President will review the facts of the case and send his/her
conclusions in writing to the Dean, faculty member and student. If the Academic
Vice President feels that proper procedures have not been followed, he/she may
appoint an ad hoc faculty panel to examine the case and render a final decision.
7.	 All appeal decisions must be rendered within two weeks of the written appeal at
each level.

30

athletic programs

Athletics at Marist College play a vital role in the life of the College, its students
and area community

Athletics
Athletics at Marist College are an extracurricular activity and secondary to any
student’s college education. Marist offers a three-tiered sports program: varsity, club,
and intramural. Athletics at Marist College reflect the College objectives and are a
means to attain educational goals.
The varsity program offers the most advanced level of competition. Marist is a
member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the subscribers to the
Division I-AA philosophy. Marist belongs to the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference.
Sports at the Varsity level are the most competitive and include:
Men:
Baseball, Basketball, Crew, Cross-Country, Football, Lacrosse, Soccer,
Swimming and Diving, Tennis, and Indoor and Outdoor Track.
Women:
Basketball, Crew, Cross-Country, Lacrosse, Soccer, Softball, Swimming
and Diving, Tennis, Indoor and Outdoor Track, Volleyball and Water Polo.
At the Club level opportunities exist in Co-ed Band, Co-ed Bowling, Co-ed Cheerleading, Co-ed Fencing, Co-ed Sailing, Co-ed Skiing, Men’s Ice Hockey, Men’s Rugby,
Men’s Volleyball, Women’s Rugby, and Co-ed Equestrian.
Students interested in team sports at a less advanced level may turn to an extensive
intramural program. Intramurals offer any students, whether expert or duffer, the
chance to play on a team without the time demands of intercollegiate athletics; more
than 2000 undergraduates participate each year. There are teams in Flag Football,
Softball, Volleyball, Soccer, Basketball, Aerobics and many more.
In its physical education and recreation program, a wide range of courses are offered
in individual sports including aerobics, golf, karate, exercise, racquetball, sailing,
dance, yoga and coaching certification. Classes are small and instruction geared to
beginning and intermediate levels of ability.
Team schedules are available throughout the year to all students. Student support
and participation in these activities are a vital part of life at Marist. Current Marist
students are not charged admission to regularly scheduled athletic events and
attendance is encouraged.

HOW DO I PARTICIPATE IN THE ATHLETICS PROGRAM
The varsity program is the highest level of competition offered at Marist. Many of the
participants at the Varsity level have been recruited to attend the College. Opportunities
for participation do exist for the non-recruited student-athlete and trying out is encouraged.
To obtain information on a particular team of interest, the coach of the sport should be
contacted at the McCann Center or an inquiry made through the Office of the Athletic
Director at X3304. The intercollegiate programs at the Club level offer a wider degree
of opportunity for participation. An inquiry can be made to obtain information on a
particular club sport through the Director of Club and Recreational Sports at Ext. 2584.
Information on the Intramural program is also posted at the McCann Center and can
be obtained by contacting the Director of Club and Recreational Sports at Ext. 2584.
The Recreation program has offerings listed in the College catalog. Additional
information can be obtained from the Office of the Athletic Director, Ext. 3304.
31

ADVISORY COMMITTEES TO THE ATHLETICS PROGRAM
1.	 Standing Committee on Athletics
	 The purpose of the Standing Committee is to formulate the broad policies within
which the Department of Athletics will operate. It does not deal with day-to-day
operations. The members of the committee, appointed by the President, include
teaching faculty, deans, administrators, and students. The Athletic Director is
always a committee member and the department recommends to the Vice President
for Student Affairs members of the committee. The Committee is composed of not
more than 14 but not less than 10 members. Student members of the committee
include the Co-chairs of the Captain’s Council.
2.	 Student Athletic Advisory Committee
	 The committee, formerly known as Captains Council, is composed of captains
and members from each of the varsity intercollegiate teams. The purpose is to act
as a liaison between the Department of Athletics and the student-athletes on any
and all matters related to the intercollegiate varsity athletic programs. It does not
have the authority to establish or change policy. The Student Athletic Advisory
Committee meets monthly - September through May.

Athletic FACILITIES
East Campus Tennis Pavilion: Located below the Fulton Townhouses, this pavilion
is the venue for the men’s and women’s tennis teams. It features 8 regulation
sized courts with a spectator area.
Gartland Commons Athletic Field (North Field): These fields are located on the
north end of campus behind the Gartland Commons dorms. This 10-acre area
serves as a playing field for the varsity men’s soccer and softball programs. In
addition, the club men’s and women’s rugby teams and intramural programs also
utilize this facility.
Leonidoff Field at Tenney Stadium: This is a stadium that provides seating for 2,000
for home varsity football, men’s and women’s lacrosse and men’s and women’s
soccer contests. Turf and lights are available for intramural and recreational use.
James J. McCann Recreation Center: This building opened officially on April 17,
1977. Intercollegiate athletics, intramurals, physical education and recreational
activities are housed in this area. Special events to which the outside public is
invited are held in the Center throughout the year.
	 Four locker rooms (two in each building) are available on a daily basis unless
occupied by a visiting team; locks left on overnight will be removed and the locker’s
contents emptied. Team locker rooms are not to be used by the daily user. Users must
supply their own lock and are responsible to secure all valuables and belongings.
McCann Center: The back portion of the building was renovated during the summer
of 2000 and now holds the Dr. Maynard Sports Medicine Area, equipment room
and a newly designed academic advisement area with individual meeting rooms
for all varsity student-athletes. The new state-of-the-art Sports Medicine Area
is a 3,500 square foot addition, which is a co-ed facility and under the direct
supervision of the Director of Sports Medicine.
	 The Center also houses a dance studio, five locker rooms (three designated for
varsity use only), and two racquetball courts.
32

McCann Field house: This gym seats 3,200 and is where the varsity men’s and
women’s basketball and varsity women’s volleyball programs compete.
McCann Fitness Center: A 20,000-sq. ft. addition to the James J. McCann Center,
opened in October 1997. This new addition includes a 4,000 square-foot, stateof-the-art cardiovascular center, which overlooks a new 4,300 square-foot weight
training area. The upper level includes a hardwood aerobics/dance floor and more
than 30 of the most advanced stair climbers, treadmills, fitness bicycles and other
CV equipment. The lower level is fitted with Wynmor free-weights and Cyber
selectorizor equipment. The Fitness Center also houses a field house, which is
utilized by the general student population in addition to the club men’s volleyball
team and intramural program. This facility also has two locker rooms and a student
lounge.
McCann Natatorium: This houses a six-lane 25 yard pool where the men’s and
women’s swimming programs and women’s water polo team compete. In addition,
there is a diving well for the men’s and women’s diving teams.
McCann Baseball Field: One of the newer additions to the school, located on the
south end of campus, serves as a playing field for the varsity baseball program.
Riverfront: The Riverfront area has been renovated to include a new bulkhead and
dock system, fishing pier, illuminated scenic river walks, renovated green space,
a gazebo and new landscaping. It includes two boathouses for the storage of crew
shells and sailing equipment for the varsity men’s and women’s rowing programs,
club sailing team and community programs.

Student Membership and Usage Policies
The McCann Recreation and Fitness Centers are for the use of the Marist College
community. The following members of the Marist College student community are
eligible for membership to the James J. McCann Recreation and Fitness Center at
no cost.
1.	 Full-time undergraduate students who pay the activities fee; and
2.	 Part-time undergraduate students who pay the activities fee.
3.	 All students MUST participate in an orientation session prior to use of the Fitness
Center.
4.	 Graduate students and students who have not paid the activities fee are NOT
ELIGIBLE to use of the Fitness Center. However, graduate students and students
who have not paid the activities fee may purchase membership for the Recreation
Center ONLY at a fee of $30.00 per semester through the office of the Assistant
Athletic Director for Internal Affairs.
5.	 Admission to the Recreation and Fitness Centers are by validated Marist College
I.D. card with member’s picture on it. Other membership cards can be obtained
from the office of the Assistant Athletic Director for Internal Affairs. An attendant
will check each person’s I.D. as he/she enters. Guests will be signed in at the
Control Desk.
6.	 Guests will be allowed to use the McCann Recreation Center ONLY when
accompanied by a member.
a.	 Guests must display picture I.D. when entering.
b.	 Members must accompany and assume full responsibility for their guests at all
times while using the McCann Center. Guests under the age of 10 will only
be admitted when accompanied by an adult member.
33

c.	 The Center reserves the right to limit guests to one per member.
d.	 All members and guests must enter through the main entrance; no one will be
allowed to enter without displaying picture identification.
7.	 There is no smoking allowed in the building. Food and beverages can only be
consumed in the front lobby or vending area.
8.	 For more extensive information on the rules and usage policy of individual McCann
facilities and playing fields students should contact the Assistant Athletic Director
for Internal Affairs.

Hours

The McCann Center and Fitness Center operate the same hours and are listed in the
McCann Center schedule. Building hours may be altered due to usage, special events,
college vacations and unforeseen emergencies. Special events, athletic practices and
competitions may require the closing of all or part of the McCann Center. Schedule
changes will be listed in the McCann Center schedule when possible, and in areas
affected with as much advance notice as possible and at the discretion of the Department of Athletics.

DRESS CODE

The College insists that the following dress standards be adhered to while using the
Recreation Center: regulation athletic t-shirts and shorts, warm-up suits, sweat suits,
tennis attire and sneakers. In addition, articles of clothing containing buttons, buckles
or zippers are not allowed in the Fitness Center.
The College also requests that the following dress standards be adhered to while
using the pool:
Male:
Tank trunks, boxer type knits (swimming style only), nylon cord, and most
combination of conventional types of bathing suits will be accepted. No
cut-off shorts will be allowed.
Female:	 Tank suits, two piece, one piece, and most other combinations of the
conventional type of bathing suits will be accepted.
Marking black-soled shoes are not permitted in the Field house, Racquetball Courts,
Dance Studio, Fitness Center Gymnasium or the Fitness Center.

EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
In case of fire, vacate building immediately. Use the closest exit and walk 50 feet
from the building. Fire alarms and extinguishers are posted conspicuously throughout
the building. Do not use the elevator in an emergency. Members and users must
obey the directions of the Center staff. Lack of cooperation may result in loss of
membership and/or privileges. For additional fire safety information and annual fire
stat for residence, you can visit http://www.marist.edu/security/firesafety.html.

Injuries

If any injury occurs, please see the supervisor on duty or Control Desk attendant.
Limited first aid supplies are available and will be dispensed upon notification
of injury. An accident report on each injury MUST be completed by the injured
individual and the supervisor on duty.

Schedule of Events

A monthly schedule of the McCann Center is available at the Control Desk in the
lobby of the McCann Center. For further information call 575-3699 (FOXX) and
press appropriate number. For updated scores and information, call 575-3699, Ext. 5.
34

35

166

MARIST

CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT

and
RESIDENT STUDENT HANDBOOK

06/08
167

Table of Contents
Code of Student Conduct

Section I
Definitions................................................................................172
Section II
Student Conduct Authority.......................................................173
Section III
Jurisdiction...............................................................................173
Section IV
Proscribed Conduct..................................................................174

A.	 Conduct Which Impacts Community.................................174

B.	 Conduct Associated with Personal
		 Responsibility and Integrity................................................175

C.	 Conduct Which Violates the Dignity and/or
		 Safety of an Individual........................................................177

D.	 Regulations Specific to Residence Living..........................179
Section V
Violation of Law and College Discipline.................................182
Section VI
The Office of Student Conduct................................................182
Section VII
Student Conduct Policies.........................................................183
Section VIII
Student Conduct Bodies and Hearings.....................................184

A.	 Resident Director Disciplinary Meeting.............................184

B.	 Disciplinary Conference.....................................................185

C.	 College Hearing Panel........................................................186

D.	 Administrative Hearing Panel.............................................186
Section IX
Student Rights..........................................................................186
Section X
Victim’s Rights.........................................................................187
Section XI
Sanctions..................................................................................188
Section XII
Interim Sanctions......................................................................190
Section XIII
Appeals.....................................................................................191
Section XIV
Involuntary Leaves and Withdrawals.......................................193
Section XV
Winter and Summer Sessions...................................................193
Section XVI
Disciplinary Files and Records................................................194
Section XVII
Academic Honesty...................................................................194
Section XVIII 	 Interpretation and Revision......................................................194

168

Section XIX













Fire Safety Information............................................................195
Fire Response Plan...................................................................195
Fire Alarm Procedures..............................................................195
Fire Evacuation Procedures......................................................196
Fire Evacuation Procedures for Persons with Disabilities.......196
General Fire Safety Policies.....................................................196
Adjacent Land and Waterfront Properties................................197
Pedestrian and Motorist Responsibilities on Route 9...............197
Enforcement by Local Police and Marist Security...................197
Pedestrian Responsibilities.......................................................197
Motorist Responsibilities..........................................................198
Emergency Call Boxes.............................................................198
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT INFORMATION.........................199

Resident Student Handbook

Residential Life Mission Statement.......................................................................201
Rites of Passage.....................................................................................................201
Staff in Residence..................................................................................................201
E-mail Communication..........................................................................................202
Party Registration Policy.......................................................................................202
Residential Life Policies and Procedures...............................................................202
Regulations Specific to Residence Living ............................................................204
Residence Selection Process..................................................................................206
Break Housing Policy............................................................................................207
Damages.................................................................................................................208
Individual Privacy and Institutional Rights...........................................................209
Safety and Security................................................................................................209
Resident Freshman Parking...................................................................................210
Visitation and Guest Policies and Procedures........................................................210
Fire Safety in Residence Halls...............................................................................211
Dining Plan............................................................................................................212
Laundry Facilities..................................................................................................213
Sustainable Practices at Marist College.................................................................213
Maintenance Requests...........................................................................................213
Residence Hall Posting and Distribution Policy....................................................213

169

170

PREAMBLE
Application to Marist College indicates a free choice to become part of an academic
community, to participate in its programs and to accept the responsibility of membership therein. The College’s acceptance of the student in turn represents the extension
of the privileges of community membership to the individual and the right to remain
a member of the community by meeting the entire academic, financial and behavioral
expectations of the College.
Marist College is committed to providing an environment that promotes and values
academic learning; institutional and personal integrity; and justice and equality. The
College considers all Marist students as its partners in the responsibility of creating
and maintaining that environment.
Each student at Marist agrees to be governed by the Code of Student Conduct. The
College, through the Office of Student Conduct maintains the responsibility to impose
sanctions for any behavior that violates the Code of Student Conduct.
All students at Marist have access to the Code of Student Conduct and Resident
Student Handbook (if a resident student). Copies are provided to students at the
beginning of their enrollment. Copies of the Code of Student Conduct are available
in the Housing & Residential Life Office, Student Affairs, Student Government
Association and the Library. In addition, this document is available on line at the
following address: http://www.marist.edu/studentlife/studentconduct/. Amendments to the Code of Student Conduct are made via the above mentioned website.
Although changes are relatively rare, students are responsible for the information
contained in this document. Therefore, students are advised to check this website
on a regular basis for the latest information.
Students are expected to respect and abide by local ordinances and state and federal
statutes both on and off campus. As members of an academic community, students
are held accountable to the College’s Code of Conduct that clarifies those behavioral
standards considered essential to the fulfillment of the College’s philosophy, mission
and goals.
The Code of Student Conduct is reviewed and updated each academic year. Any
changes or amendments made during the academic year will be posted on the
Office of Student Conduct website. For more information visit our website at
http://www.marist.edu/studentlife/studentconduct/.

171

SECTION I
Definitions

A.	 The term “College” means Marist College.
B.	 The term “Student” includes all persons taking courses at the College, both full
time and part time, pursuing undergraduate and graduate studies. Persons who are
not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship
with the College are considered students.
C. 	The term “Student Organization” includes all organizations, both graduate and
undergraduate, that are officially recognized by the College and/or funded through
Student Government Association.
D.	 The term “Faculty Member” means any person hired by the College to conduct
classroom activities.
E.	 The term “College Official” includes any person employed by the College,
performing assigned administrative, professional responsibilities, which includes
staff, paraprofessionals and security officers.
F.	 The term “College Premises” includes all land, buildings, facilities and other
property in the possession of, or owned, used or controlled by the College including
adjacent streets and sidewalks. The term “College Premises” also applies to study
abroad sites and international programs.
G.	 The term “Member of the College Community” includes any person who is a
student, faculty member, College official or any other person employed by the
College. A person’s status in a particular situation shall be determined by the Vice
President for Student Affairs or his/her designee.
H.	 The term “Student Conduct Body” means any person or persons authorized by
the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/her designee to determine whether a
student has violated the Code of Student Conduct and to recommend imposition
of sanctions.
I.	 The term “Student Conduct Officer” means a College official authorized on a
case-by-case basis by the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/her designee
to impose sanctions upon students found to have violated the Code of Student
Conduct. The Vice President for Student Affairs or his/her designee may authorize
a Student Conduct Officer to serve simultaneously as a Student Conduct Officer
and the sole member or one of the members of a Student Conduct Body. Nothing
shall prevent the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/her designee from
authorizing the same Student Conduct Officer to impose sanctions in all cases.
J.	 The term “Student Conduct Advisor” means any individual assigned to advise a
Student Conduct Body.
K.	 The term “Shall” is used in the imperative sense.
L.	 The term “May” is used in the permissive sense.
M.	The “Vice President for Student Affairs” is that person designated by the President
of the College to be responsible for the administration of the Code of Student
Conduct.
N.	 The term “Policy” is defined as the written regulations of the College as found in, but
not limited to, the Student Handbook and the Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs.
O.	 The term “Code” will refer specifically to this document.
172

P.	 The terms “Areas, Facilities, Rooms and Halls” will refer to the residence in which
a student lives.
Q.	 The term “Keys” is defined as keys, identification cards, or any other technology
or equipment used to gain entry or limit access.
R.	 The term “Business Day” is defined as Monday through Friday between the hours
of 8:30 am and 5:00 pm excluding college-wide closings and holidays.
S.	 The term “Guest” is defined as non-Marist individuals who are visiting and/or
staying overnight. All guests of first year students must be issued guest passes,
which they are required to carry at all times.
T.	 The term “Visitor” is defined as a Marist student who is not a registered resident
of that facility.
U.	 The term “Charged Student(s)” is defined as a student who has allegedly violated
the Code of Student Conduct.
V.	 The term “Complainant” is defined as any member of the community who alleges
in writing that a student has violated the Code of Student Conduct.

SECTION II
Student Conduct Authority

A.	 Disciplinary authority in non-academic affairs is under the jurisdiction of the
Office of Student Conduct through the Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean
of Students and his/her designees. The day-to-day management of the program
is the responsibility of the Office of Student Conduct under the direct supervision
of the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs and his/her designees.
B.	 In those cases involving academic dishonesty, the Dean of Faculty/Vice President
for Academic Affairs shall oversee a separate process described under the
Academic Honesty Policy.
C.	 The Vice President for Student Affairs shall develop policies for the administration
of the Student Conduct program and procedural rules for conducting hearings
which are consistent with provisions of the Code of Student Conduct.
D.	 Decisions made by the Student Conduct Officer or conduct bodies are final,
pending the normal appeals process.

SECTION III
Jurisdiction

Generally, College jurisdiction and discipline shall apply to conduct which occurs on
College property and/or College related events which adversely affect the College
community and/or the pursuit of its objectives.
The Office of Student Conduct in conjunction with the Vice President for Student
Affairs will determine when the College will take action for allegations of off-campus
misconduct that also violates College policies and/or Federal, State or local laws,
statutes or ordinances.
Marist holds that all individuals who are members of the College community have a
responsibility to represent themselves in a lawful and responsible manner at all times.
Students who are accepted to study abroad/international program sites may be held
responsible for inappropriate behavior and college policy violations that occur when
they are studying away from campus.
173

SECTION IV
Proscribed Conduct

Any student or student organization found to have committed the following misconduct is subject to disciplinary sanctions as outlined in Section XI - Sanctions.

A. Conduct which Impacts the Community


174

Marist College strives to create an atmosphere that supports the academic mission
of the institution. Students should be able to live and learn in an environment
that is orderly, peaceful and free of disturbances which impede an individual’s
growth and development. Respect for the rights of others and for the College
and its property is an essential expectation for each Marist student. The following restrictions are seen as necessary for fostering a positive community. Their
violation will result in disciplinary action.
Violations
1.	 Keys. Unauthorized possession, duplication or use of keys to any College
premises. Students are not permitted to give assigned residence keys to other
students or guests.
2.	 Unauthorized Entry. Unauthorized entry to or use of a College private room,
building, structure, vehicle or facility.
3.	 Disorderly Conduct. Conduct that is disruptive, lewd or indecent, regardless
of intent, which breaches the peace of the community.
4.	 Dangerous Objects. Illegal or unauthorized possession of any firearms. This
includes, but is not limited to: recreational guns (for example, air, BB, pellet or
paintball), decorative swords, knives, brass knuckles, martial arts equipment,
replicas of weapons, or explosives. Other weapons or dangerous chemicals,
whether or not in proper working condition, are prohibited.
5.	 Arson. Committing acts of arson, creating a fire hazard, or unauthorized
possession or use of flammable materials or hazardous substances.
6.	 Safety Regulations. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Falsely reporting a bomb, fire or any other emergency by means of activating
a fire alarm or by any other means.
b.	 Unauthorized possession, use or alteration of any College-owned emergency
or safety equipment. This includes, but is not limited to, malicious discharge
of a fire extinguisher, which will likely result in a $150 fine.
c.	 Failure to evacuate a building or other structure during an emergency, or
during emergency drills.
d.	 Actions that create a substantial risk such that the safety of an individual
is compromised.
e.	 Activation of alarm system due to unauthorized use of fire doors. This will
likely result in a $150 fine.
f.	 Smoking. Smoking, or evidence of smoking, is not permitted in any of
the residence areas or academic/administrative buildings. This includes
individual rooms, apartments, suites, common areas, bathrooms, etc. Anyone
smoking outside should be at least 25 feet from any building on campus.
g.	 Students who live on campus are strictly prohibited from having any items
which could create a fire hazard (for example, candles, extension cords, or
appliances, etc.).

7.	 Disruption. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Disruption or obstruction of teaching, research, administration or other
College activities, including its public-service functions on or off campus,
or other authorized non-College activities, when the act occurs on College
premises.
b.	 Leading or inciting others to disrupt scheduled and/or normal activities
associated with the operations of the College; intentional obstruction which
unreasonably interferes with freedom of movement, either pedestrian or
vehicular, on campus.
c.	 Obstruction of the free flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on College
premises or at College sponsored or supervised functions.
8.	 Failure to Abide by Federal, State and/or Local Laws. Including but not
limited to possession of a forged instrument, driving under the influence or while
intoxicated, possession of an open container (alcohol), and stealing street signs.
9.	 College Policies. Violation of published College policies, rules and regulations.
10.	Solicitation and Posting. The distribution of flyers on campus advertising
alcoholic beverages or drink specials is strictly prohibited. All selling and
soliciting of merchandise and services on campus is prohibited. Also prohibited
is the advertising of such solicitation or sale, as well as any posted materials
in common areas that are not specifically approved by the College Activities
Office or the Office of Housing and Residential Life.
11.	Gambling. Organized gambling is not permitted on College property or at
College sponsored events off-campus.

B.	Conduct Associated with Personal Responsibility and
Integrity


The Marist community strongly promotes a personal values system, which focuses
on each person taking responsibility for his/her own actions, and on maintaining
dignity and truth. The following restrictions outline the parameters within which each
individual shall be held responsible. Their violation will result in disciplinary action.
Violations
1.	 Acts of Dishonesty. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Providing false information to any College official, faculty member or
office.
b.	 Forgery, alteration or misuse of any College document, record or instrument
of identification, including parking permits.
c.	 Tampering with the election of any College recognized student organization
officer.
d.	 Encouraging or assisting another person to violate a College policy.
e.	 Policies regarding academic dishonesty are not covered by this Code. For
information on academic dishonesty, see the Student Handbook.
f.	 Use of the College name by student clubs, organizations, teams or individual
students organizing events that falsely represent co-sponsorship by Marist
College.

175

2.	 Student Identification. Marist College identification cards and the privileges
included therein are the property of Marist College and are non-transferable.
The following acts are a violation of College Policy:
a.	 Failure to show proper student identification or other identification to any
faculty, staff or student staff in the performance of his/her official duties. All
students are required to carry their own identification with them at all times.
b.	 Loaning or using a College-issued identification card for the purpose of
accessing services. This includes, but is not limited to, dining facilities,
ticket sales, any College- sponsored events (including but not limited to
concerts, Broadway trips, and ski trips) and building entry.
c.	 Altering in any way or duplicating an identification card
3.	 Failure to Comply. Failure to comply with reasonable and lawful requests
or directives of College officials or law enforcement officers acting in
performance of their duties and/or interference with faculty, staff, or student
staff acting in the performance of their official duties.
4.	 Damage to Property. Any action that causes damage or which would tend to
cause damage to the property of the College or property of a member of the
College community or other personal or public property.
5.	 Theft. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Attempted or actual theft of College property or services or property
belonging to any member of the College community.
b.	 The unauthorized possession of College property or property belonging to
any member of the College community.
c.	 Unauthorized use or abuse of computer time and/or computer systems,
information, passwords or computerized data.
d.	 Obtaining or attempting to obtain telephone service by any devious means,
including but not limited to: unauthorized charging of another person
for service, utilizing fraudulent mechanical means to gain service and/or
tampering with connections, facilities or documents.
6.	 Alcohol Policy. The College is concerned with the use and abuse of alcohol,
as it is with other drugs. A person is as responsible for his/her behavior when
he/she has been drinking as when he/she has not been drinking. The alcohol
policy states that the consumption of alcohol in conjunction with the violation of any College policy can result in a more severe disciplinary sanction.
Any student found intoxicated may be transported to St. Francis Hospital for
medical evaluation. In those cases, the parents of transported students will
be notified. The College is not responsible for any costs incurred based upon
the need to transport an intoxicated student. Any student who refuses medical
treatment for alcohol intoxication will be denied access to campus facilities.
In a case when a student refuses medical treatment parents will be notified.
The following guidelines for the responsible consumption of alcohol apply to
students at Marist College.
a.	 Students under 21 years of age may not be in the presence of, possess or use
alcoholic beverages on the College campus except as expressly permitted
by law and College policy. The only exception is the underage student
who resides with students of legal drinking age who may be in the presence
of alcohol in the assigned residence; provided these underage roommates
do not distribute, sell, possess or consume alcohol.
176



b.	 The possession or use of alcohol by anyone who lives in designated freshmen and sophomore residence areas (Sheahan, Leo, Champagnat, Marian,
Midrise, Gartland and designated sophomore areas in Foy Townhouses and
the Residence Inn) is strictly prohibited even if those resident students are
over 21. The only exception is the student who serves as Resident Assistant
or Assistant Resident Director if that student is 21 years of age or over.
With these exceptions, the use of alcohol is restricted to the privacy of the
staff member’s room.
c.	 Alcohol shall not be consumed in public areas of the residence facilities.
d.	 Consumption of alcohol and/or possession of an open container are not
permitted on the grounds of the campus without prior approval of the Vice
President for Student Affairs.
e.	 Any violation in which consumption of alcohol was a contributing factor is also
a violation of the alcohol policy regardless of the age of the students involved.
f.	 Alcohol may be consumed by students or guests over 21 years of age only in
student apartments/townhouses if the residents responsible for the apartments/
townhouses are at least 21 years of age and live in residence areas where alcohol
is permitted (Upper and Lower New Townhouses, Foy Townhouses, Upper
and Lower West Cedar, Talmadge Court, and Fulton Street Townhouses).
Consumption includes the possession of an open container.
g.	 If a student resides in a residence unit (apartment or townhouse) where the
majority of students are over 21, only those students over 21 may purchase,
possess or consume alcohol. If all members of the residence are over 21 years
of age, the group may sponsor an event where alcohol is consumed. Specific
guidelines for sponsoring such an event are available from the student’s
Resident Director or from the Office of Housing & Residential Life.
h.	 Residents are responsible for the actions of their guests regarding alcohol
possession and use.
i.	 Public intoxication is strictly prohibited.
Marist College, as part of its educational mission, seeks to assist students in
developing appropriate attitudes and behavior regarding the use of alcohol. To
this end the College offers educational programs regarding the negative health and
social effects of alcohol consumption. For those individuals who have developed
or begin to develop identifiable problems as a result of their alcohol use, a variety
of services are available through the College’s Counseling Center located on the
third floor of the Student Center (ext. 3314).
7.	 Drug Policy. Students may not be in the presence of, possess, or use narcotics
or other controlled substances except as expressly permitted by law. Any
student who is struggling with an addiction to any narcotic or controlled
substance may seek help at the College’s Counseling Center located on the third
floor of the Student Center (Ext. 3314). Possession with the intent to sell or
distribute narcotic or controlled substances will likely result in dismissal from
the College. Any drug related violation of College policy will be considered
a violation of the Drug Policy.

177

8.	 Drug and Alcohol Paraphernalia.
a.	 Any items that can be utilized for or are designed for the use of illegal
drugs (e.g., bowls, bongs, hookahs, scales, related heating devices, etc.)
are not allowed in the residence areas. Any items that are fashioned for
the purpose of drug use will also be considered a violation of this policy.
b.	 Empty containers related to alcohol (i.e.: liquor bottles, beer cans or bottles)
are prohibited in first and second year residence areas where students are
not allowed to consume alcohol because they are under 21 years of age.
c.	 Empty or full kegs, beer balls or any other large containers of alcoholic
beverages designed for consumption by a group of people are prohibited on
campus-operated property, except as in conjunction with a campus sponsored
event and approved by the Vice President for Student Affairs. Violation of
this policy will result in a $150 fine. The possession of any implement
that can be used to irresponsibly ingest alcoholic beverages is prohibited
(e.g., funnels, drinking game devices, beer pong tables, etc.) and any such
implements may be confiscated by the College and not returned.
9.	 Abuse of the Student Conduct System. Including, but not limited to:
a.	 Failure to obey the summons of a student conduct body or College official.
b.	 Falsification, distortion or misrepresentation of information before a student
conduct body. This will also result in additional conduct charges being filed.
c.	 Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a disciplinary
proceeding.
d.	 Institution of a disciplinary proceeding knowingly without cause by filing
a false report or statement.
e.	 Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participation in, or use of,
the conduct system through intimidation or any other means.
f.	 Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of a conduct body
prior to, and/or during the course of, the student conduct proceeding.
g.	 Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of a
conduct body prior to, during, and/or after a student conduct proceeding.
h.	 Failure to comply with the sanction imposed under the Code.
i.	 Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse
of the student conduct system.
10.	Computer Misuse. Misuse or abuse of the College computer system, voice
mail or telephone services as defined by the College. (see College Network
Usage Agreement available at http://infosecurity.marist.edu/netuse.html.
	 This includes but is not limited to:
a.	 Illegally copying, distributing, down loading and/or uploading copyrighted
materials on any personal or college computer system. These materials
include, but are not limited to, text (including emails and web information),
graphic art, photographs, music, film, file sharing and software.
b.	 Use of computers and campus network to harass or threaten other computer
users, or to publicly display offensive or obscene messages.
c.	 Unauthorized use or abuse of your computer account or the College network.
d.	 Repeatedly sending messages with no appropriate intent.
178

e.	 Accessing a student or staff account without authorization.
f.	 Using a College office account to send messages without authorization.
g.	 Failure to comply with college policies on computers, networks, voice mail
and telephone services.
h.	 E-mail solicitation.
i.	 Using a personal router in a residence hall or apartment.
C.	Conduct which Violates the Dignity and/or Safety of an Individual
	 Marist recognizes that it must create an environment where each person’s individual
dignity will be valued. In a college setting, it is particularly important that there
be a respect for diversity and differences in opinion, as the College is dedicated
to providing a comprehensive educational experience that prepares individuals to
be able to function in a diverse society. Students deserve to be free from fear of
harassment or physical abuse. Especially intolerable are bias-related incidents:
acts directed against individuals based on race, religion, ethnicity, gender or sexual
orientation. Therefore, bias-related incidents, harassment, or physical abuse shall
subject the offender(s) to more serious levels of sanctioning. Additionally, biasrelated incidents may also be a violation of State law, and students may be subject
to prosecution. The College shall also impose more severe sanctions upon those
individuals who direct misconduct at individuals because they are carrying out
duties assigned to them as staff members, on the basis that staff members deserve
to be free of harassment, intimidation, harm or threat of harm in the performance
of their duties. The following restrictions are designed to protect the dignity and
safety of the individual. Their violation will result in disciplinary action. Marist
College expects that all students will act in a civil manner that reflects maturity,
social responsibility and respect towards all members of the Marist community.
Violations
1.	 Harassment. Actions which are intended to annoy, instill fear, and/or
threaten the safety, mental, or physical health of another. Actions directed
against an individual or group based on race, religion, ethnicity, gender or
sexual orientation are very serious violations of this policy and will subject
the offender(s) to more serious levels of sanctioning. These include but are
not limited to:
a.	 Attempting or threatening to subject another person to unwanted physical
contact.
b.	 Pursuing or following another person in or about a public place or places.
c.	 Non-consensual communication, including but not limited to: initiating or
attempting contact by any means with no purpose of legitimate conversation; written letters; e-mail; text messaging; instant messaging; voicemail;
unwanted gifts; surveillance or other types of photographing or observation;
trespassing; vandalism; and non-consensual touching.
d.	 Directing obscene language or gestures at another person or group of people.
e.	 Directing verbal abuse at another person because the individual is carrying
out duties and responsibilities associated with his/her role as faculty, staff
or student staff at the College.
f.	 Distributing information about another individual without their consent
using paper, electronic or telecommunication devices. Examples include but
are not limited to: on-line journals, blogs, instant messages, text messages,
and digital recording devices.
179

g.	 Making any unauthorized video or photographic images of a person in
a location in which that person has a reasonable expectation of privacy
including but not limited to showers/locker rooms, residence hall rooms
and restrooms is prohibited. Also prohibited is the storing, sharing and/or
other distribution of such unauthorized images by any means.
2.	 Hazing. New York State Law and Marist College policy prohibit hazing. New
York State Penal law provides as follows:
	 §120.16 Hazing in the first degree.
	 A person is guilty of hazing in the first degree when in the course of another
person’s initiation into or affiliation with any organization, he intentionally
or recklessly engages in conduct, which creates a substantial risk of physical
injury to such other person or a third person and thereby causes such injury.
Hazing in 	the first degree is a Class A misdemeanor. (Note: punishable by
up to one (1) year imprisonment or fine up to $1,000 or both.)
	 §120.17 Hazing in the second degree
	 A person is guilty of hazing in the second degree when in the course of another
person’s initiation or affiliation with any organization, he intentionally or
recklessly engages in conduct which creates a substantial risk of physical
injury to such other person or a third person. Hazing in the second degree is
a violation (Note: Punishable by up to 15 days imprisonment, or fine up to
$250 or both.
	 In addition, Marist College considers hazing as any action or situation created
by an individual, group, organization, or team intentionally or unintentionally,
whether on or off College premises, to produce mental or physical discomfort,
embarrassment, harassment, ridicule, or in any way demean the dignity of
another human being. The planning or preparation to engage in hazing activity is also a violation of this policy. The expressed or implied consent of the
participants will not be a defense.
	 Examples may include, but are not limited to the following: forced consumption of
beverages including but not limited to alcohol, water, milk; paddling in any form;
creation of excess fatigue; “kidnapping”; physical and/or psychological shock;
engaging in public stunts, morally degrading or humiliating games; wearing signs
with inappropriate language/slogans; shaving of heads or forcing or requiring a
particular hair cut; or any other activities or behavior inconsistent with the law and/
or College policies. No individual or group may haze another individual or group
at any time including initiation into or the affiliation with any organization, group,
or team. Initiations, however explained, or activities that imply, force, encourage,
condone or allow students to misuse alcohol or other drugs, or violate the law, or
commit unethical, immoral or inappropriate behavior are forbidden. Hazing does
not build strong organizations, groups, teams or traditions. Rather, it is a means
of abuse and humiliation. Therefore, hazing of any kind is strictly prohibited by
the College and subject to disciplinary action.
3.	 Sexual Misconduct. Including but not limited to:
a.	 The act of sexual intercourse without consent.
b.	 Any intentional and uninvited sexually explicit touching, or attempt or
threat of such touching.
c.	 Any engagement in sexual activity with another person without their consent.
180



Note: The act of consent requires spoken words or behavior that indicates,
without doubt to either party, a mutual agreement to participate in sexual
intercourse or other sexual activities. Indicators of consent do not include
silence or past or present sexual relationships. A person is deemed incapable
of consenting when that person is mentally defective, mentally incapacitated,
physically helpless (whether induced by drugs, alcohol, or otherwise) or asleep.
The use of alcohol or other drugs cannot be considered an excuse for rape or
sexual assault. Sexual Misconduct can be committed by a friend, significant
other, acquaintance or stranger.
	 Victim’s Rights as Related to Sexual Misconduct. Because the College
values the dignity of each member of its community, the College wants to
ensure the individual rights of anyone from this community who reports sexual
assault or rape. Therefore, the College endorses and upholds the rights listed
in the Victim’s Rights Section.
4.	 Physical Assault. Actions directed against an individual or group based
on race, religion, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation are very serious
violations of this policy and will subject the offender(s) to more serious
levels of sanctioning. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Inflicting bodily harm upon any person.
b.	 Taking any action for the purpose of inflicting harm upon any person.
c.	 Threatened use of force upon any person.
d.	 Subjecting another person to unwanted physical contact.
	 Marist College does not tolerate any form of physical assault by any
member of the college community occurring on or off campus. Any student
found in violation of physical assault may be suspended or dismissed from
the College.
5.	 Reckless Endangerment. Taking any action that creates a substantial risk
such that bodily harm could result to any person. These include but are not
limited to:
a.	 Objects or people on window ledges.
b.	 Use of weapons of any kind for any purpose.
c.	 Throwing objects, (e.g., snowballs).
d.	 Use of fireworks.
e.	 Jeopardizing the physical or emotional safety of oneself or another. (e.g.,
excessive consumption of alcohol or drugs).

D. Regulations Specific to Residence Living


In attempting to create an environment where learning and daily life can proceed
without disruption, it is necessary to establish regulations specifically designed
for the unique atmosphere of residence living. Regulations, however, are not
effective without each resident assuming responsibility for their own actions, and
assuming shared responsibility for the environment. The restrictions described in
the Resident Student Handbook have been developed to promote both individual
and community responsibility in the residence halls. Any violation of these
restrictions will result in disciplinary action.

181

SECTION V
Violation of Law and College Discipline

A.	 If a student is charged only with an off-campus violation of Federal, State or
local law, but not with any other violation of this Code, disciplinary action may
be taken and sanctions imposed by the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/
her designee for grave misconduct which demonstrates flagrant disregard for the
College community.
B.	 College disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged
with a violation of a law that is also a violation of the Code, for example, if both
violations result from the same factual situation, without regard to the status of
civil litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under
this Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or
criminal proceedings off-campus.
C.	 When a student is charged by Federal, State or local authorities with a violation
of law, the College will not request or agree to special consideration for that
individual because of his/her status as a student. If the alleged offense is also the
subject of a proceeding before a student conduct body under the Code, however,
the College may advise off-campus authorities of the existence of the Code of
Student Conduct and of how such matters will be handled internally within the
College community. The College will cooperate fully with law enforcement and
other agencies in the enforcement of criminal law on campus and in the conditions
imposed by criminal courts for the rehabilitation of student violators. Individual
students and faculty members, acting in their personal capacities, remain free to
interact with governmental representatives as they deem appropriate.

SECTION VI
The Office of Student Conduct

A.	 The Office of Student Conduct has been delegated the responsibility to administer
the student conduct system. The operations of the Office shall be the responsibility
of the Conduct Officer. Responsibilities of the Office include but are not limited to:
1.	 Reviewing complaints and determining charges to be filed pursuant to the
Code of Student Conduct.
2.	 Investigating cases and conducting Disciplinary Conferences.
3.	 Determining which student conduct body shall hear each case.
4.	 Interviewing and advising parties involved in disciplinary proceedings.
5.	 Supervising the selection, training and advising of all campus justices and
hearing officers.
6.	 Reviewing the decisions of all conduct bodies.
7.	 Resolving disputes and contested issues that arise out of alleged cases of student
misconduct.
8.	 Maintaining all student disciplinary records resulting from enforcement of the
Code of Student Conduct.
9.	 Collecting and disseminating data concerning student conduct system actions.

182

Section VII
Student Conduct Policies

Charges and Hearings
A.	 Any member of the College community may file charges against any student
for misconduct. Charges shall be prepared in writing and sent to the Director of
Student Conduct, who is in turn responsible for the administration of the student
conduct system.
B.	 The Student Conduct Officer and/or his/her designee may conduct an investigation
to determine if the charges have merit and/or if they can be disposed of administratively in a Disciplinary Conference by mutual consent of the parties involved
on a basis acceptable to the Student Conduct Officer. If the charges cannot be
disposed of through a Disciplinary Conference, the Student Conduct and/or his/
her designee may later serve in the same matter as the student conduct body.
C.	 If the charges cannot be disposed of through a Resident Director Disciplinary
Meeting or a Disciplinary Conference, the Student Conduct Officer shall select
one of the following student conduct bodies to resolve the case:, College Hearing
Panel or Administrative Hearing.
D.	 All charges shall be presented to the charged student in written form. A time shall
be set for a hearing, the minimum time limit for which is determined by the level
at which the case shall be resolved. The Student Conduct Officer may not reduce
the minimum time limit without the signed consent of the charged student.
E.	 Hearings shall be conducted by either a College Hearing Panel, or Administrative
Hearing Panel according to the following guidelines:
1.	 Hearings shall be closed to the public.
2.	 All cases will be presented by the Office of Student Conduct.
3.	 Admission of any person to the hearing shall be at the discretion of the conduct
body and/or it’s Student Conduct Advisor.
4.	 In hearings involving more than one charged student, the Student Conduct
Officer, at his/her discretion may permit the hearings concerning each student
to be conducted separately.
5.	 The complainant and the charged student have the right to be assisted by any
advisor they choose provided the advisor is not an attorney. The student may,
at his/her own expense, be accompanied by an attorney when there is a pending
criminal case or when there is a reasonable likelihood that a criminal complaint
will be brought against the student arising out of the same facts as the charge(s).
In cases where criminal charges are not pending, the Conduct Officer shall be
the sole authority responsible for determining whether an attorney may serve as
an advisor. Attorneys are subject to the same restrictions as other advisors. Any
student who elects to be accompanied by an attorney must notify the Conduct
Officer at least three (3) business days in advance of the hearing.
6.	 The complainant, the charged student and the student conduct body shall have
the privilege of presenting witnesses, subject to the right of questioning by the
student conduct body.
7.	 Pertinent records, exhibits and/or written statements may be accepted for
consideration by a student conduct body at the discretion of the Conduct Advisor.
183

8.	 All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of
the conduct body, in consultation with its Conduct Advisor. Administrative
Hearings may be conducted without a Conduct Advisor.
9.	 After the hearing, the student conduct body shall determine (by majority vote
if the student conduct body consists of more than one person) whether the
student has violated each section of the Code of Student Conduct, which the
student is charged with violating.
10.	The conduct body’s determination shall be made on the basis of whether or not
there is a preponderance of evidence which supports the finding of a violation,
indicating that it is more likely than not that the charged student violated the
Code of Student Conduct.
11.	At the College Hearing Panel, and Administrative Hearing levels, there shall be
a single, verbatim record, such as a CD recording, of all hearings. The record
shall be the exclusive property of the College. Upon written request, the Office
of Student Conduct shall provide a copy of the recorded proceeding at cost and
with a minimum of three (3) business day’s notice solely to a charged student
who is requesting access to this information for the purpose of filing an appeal.
F.	 If a student charged with violating College policy fails to attend a scheduled
hearing, the hearing will be held in the student’s absence and the student will be
assumed to have entered a claim of Not in Violation to each allegation forfeiting
his/her ability to present information on his/her behalf. The Conduct Officer shall
then investigate to determine why the student did not attend the hearing. If the
Conduct Officer determines that the absence is inexcusable, the decision of the
hearing shall stand. Otherwise, the Conduct Officer may grant a new hearing.
G.	 Except in the case of a student charged with failing to obey the summons of a
student conduct body or College official, no student may be found to have violated
the Code of Student Conduct solely because the student failed to appear before
the student conduct body. In all cases, the information in support of the charges
shall be presented and considered.
H.	 Formal rules of process, procedure, and/or technical rules of evidence such as
applied in criminal court are not used in student code proceedings.

Section VIII
Student Conduct Bodies and Hearings

The College shall establish appropriate student conduct bodies that may conduct
hearings concerning alleged violations of the Code and determine responsibility and
appropriate sanctions. These bodies shall include:
A.	 Resident Director Disciplinary Meeting
	 Resident Directors shall be empowered to hear cases of alleged misconduct in and
immediately around the residence facilities. Charged students will be notified in
writing of the charges and the date and time to meet with the Resident Director
(“RD”) to discuss the case and either accepts the sanctions imposed by the RD
or request a Disciplinary Conference. The student will also be notified of the
procedure for submitting a written request for a Disciplinary Conference if the
student does not accept the finding of the Resident Director. Should the student
accept the finding of the Resident Director, the decision will be considered final,
without the right to an appeal.
184



In sanctioning at this level, Resident Directors will be empowered to impose
sanctions up to and including Probation and recommend to the Director of Housing
& Residential Life that a student be moved to another resident facility, as well
as imposing other educational sanctions. Resident Directors may not impose
Disciplinary Probation, nor may they recommend Disciplinary Suspension,
Disciplinary Dismissal, Residence Hall Suspension or Residence Hall Dismissal.
	 If a charged student fails to appear at a scheduled Resident Director Disciplinary
Meeting following proper written notification, the designated Resident Director
may review the evidence in support of the charges and render a decision. Findings
and sanctions, if applicable, will be based on the information, not upon the charged
student’s failure to appear. The decision rendered by the Resident Director may
be appealed in writing to the Office of Student Conduct within three business (3)
days of the decision, but cannot be appealed on the basis that the student did not
attend the Disciplinary Meeting, as a failure to appear constitutes a forfeiture of
the right to present information.
	 If the Resident Director learns that the student’s failure to appear at a scheduled
Disciplinary Meeting is for good cause, the Resident Director may reschedule the
conference. The Resident Director shall be the sole authority for determining the
validity of an absence.
B.	 Disciplinary Conference
	 A Disciplinary Conference may be held at any level of the student conduct process
if all parties agree to such a resolution and where the charged student acknowledges
violations of the Code. In the Disciplinary Conference, the Conduct Officer and/
or his/her designee shall review all available information and determine violations
of the Code of Student Conduct and appropriate sanction(s).
1.	 The charged student shall be notified in writing at least three (3) business days prior
to the scheduled Disciplinary Conference. The Conduct Officer may withdraw
any charge deemed to be without basis. The Conduct Officer may not reduce the
minimum notification without the signed consent of the charged student.
2.	 If the substantive facts and sanction(s) can be agreed upon by the Conduct
Officer and the charged student(s), a disciplinary action agreement may be
prepared and signed by both. A signed disciplinary action agreement shall
constitute an acceptance of the finding and sanction(s). The decision will be
considered final; without right to an appeal and/or hearing.
3.	 If the substantive facts and sanction(s) cannot be agreed upon, the matter shall
be referred to a hearing.
4.	 If a charged student fails to appear at a scheduled Disciplinary Conference following proper written notification, the designated Conduct Officer may review
the information in support of the charges and render a decision. Findings and
sanctions, if applicable, will be based on the information and not upon the charged
student’s failure to appear. The decision rendered by the Conduct Officer may be
appealed within three (3) business days of the decision, but cannot be appealed
on the basis that the student did not attend the Disciplinary Conference, as a
failure to appear constitutes a forfeiture of the right to present information.
5.	 If the Conduct Officer learns that the student’s failure to appear at a scheduled
Disciplinary Conference is for good cause, the Conduct Officer may reschedule
the conference. The Conduct Officer shall be the sole authority for determining
the validity of an absence.
185

C.	 College Hearing Panel
	 The College Hearing Panel shall be composed of one- two students and two - three
faculty/staff members drawn from a pool of no fewer than seven students and
eight faculty/staff members. The composition of the panel will be determined the
Conduct Officer based on the gravity of the allegation and the level of potential
sanctioning. This panel shall hear cases, which involve allegations of misconduct
that occur both on and off campus. A case may be deemed serious if an alleged
student has a significant past record or, if found in violation of the charges, the
sanctions may result in a recommendation of suspension or dismissal. The
sanctioning ability of the College Hearing Panel shall include all sanctions noted
in the Code of Student Conduct, including the recommendation of suspension or
dismissal to the Suspension Review Panel. In all College Hearing Panel hearings, the charged student shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at
least four (4) full business days in advance. There is no statute of limitations for
infractions that would result in a hearing at this level.
D.	 Administrative Hearing Panel
	 An Administrative Hearing Panel may be held at the discretion of the Conduct
Officer. This panel shall be composed of a minimum of one (1) faculty/staff
member and a maximum of three (3) faculty/staff members assigned by the Office
of Student Conduct. In these instances, all procedures will be based on hearing
level as described above.

Section IX
Student Rights

Students should expect that disciplinary proceedings will be handled fairly. All Marist
students charged with violating the Code shall be granted the following student rights:
A.	 A student has the right to a hearing by an unbiased student conduct body.
B.	 A student has the right to have an advisor present at the hearing, provided that the
individual is not an Attorney. (Exceptions to this rule can be found in the Code
under Section VII, E, 5).
C.	 A student has the right to written notice of the charges indicating the time and
place of the hearing. Proper written notification shall be defined as the delivery
of mail to a student’s on-campus mailbox or delivery by the U.S. Post Office (with
Certificate of Mailing) to a student’s local off-campus address. Students shall be
held responsible for the contents of mail for which they have refused receipt.
D.	 A student has the right to receive a copy of written report(s) stating the circumstances and allegations involved. This information shall generally be given to
the student at the time that they receive notification of the time and place of the
hearing.
E.	 A student has the right to object to a Board/Panel member or Hearing Officer who
is serving in the capacity of student conduct body. The Conduct Advisor will
determine the validity of the objection.
F.	 A student has the right not to present information against himself/herself.
G.	 A student has the right to hear and respond to all information presented against
him/her. This includes the right to question all parties through the student conduct
body.
H.	 A student has the right to present information and witnesses in his/her own behalf.
186

I.	 A student has the right to written notification of the results of a hearing no later
than ten business days after the hearing.
J.	 A student has the right to appeal the outcome of a hearing, except in cases of
accepted Resident Director or Disciplinary Conference decisions. A student must
be informed of their right to appeal and the process by which to do so.

Section X
Victim’s Rights

When a member of the Marist community has been the victim of an alleged act of
misconduct which violates the physical and/or mental welfare of an individual, the
victim should expect that the student conduct system shall respond in a caring, sensitive manner which allows the victim to utilize the student conduct process unimpeded,
while still maintaining the rights of the charged student. In cases including but not
limited to sexual misconduct, physical assault, hazing and harassment, the following
rights shall be provided to victims of alleged offenses:
A.	 A victim has the right to be treated with dignity and compassion by the conduct
body and by all persons involved in the disciplinary process.
B.	 A victim has the right to information pertaining to the campus conduct process
and appropriate referrals for information on the criminal process.
C.	 A victim has the right to information pertaining to counseling assistance available
to him/her.
D.	 A victim has the right to assistance throughout the conduct process, including the
right to have an advisor present at all proceedings, provided that the individual is
not an Attorney. (Exceptions to this rule can be found in the Code under Section
VII, E, 5).
E.	 A victim has the right to all student rights and protections provided to charged students,
including the right to written notification of a hearing, the right to hear all information
presented, the right to present information and witnesses, the right to verbal disclosure
of the results of a hearing, and the right to appeal imposed sanctions.
F.	 A victim has the right to testify from another location as long as it does not infringe
upon the rights of the charged student to have a fair hearing.
G.	 A victim has the right to have any unrelated past behavior (including past sexual
behavior in cases involving sexual misconduct) excluded from the hearing process.
The conduct body shall determine what constitutes unrelated behavior.
H.	 A victim has the right to submit a written impact statement to the conduct body
which will be considered only in sanctioning, should there be a finding of violation
against the charged student.
I.	 A victim has the right to privacy throughout the student conduct process in relation
to campus and other media and from all other uninvolved parties.
J.	 A victim has the right to expect to be free from intimidation and harassment
throughout the student conduct process.
K.	 A victim has the right to request that campus personnel take the necessary steps reasonably available to prevent unwanted contact or proximity with the charged student(s).
L.	 A victim has the right to appeal the sanctions imposed upon the charged student(s).
For more information on the appeals process, please see Section XIII.
187

Sanctions

Section XI

A.	 The following sanctions may be imposed, by a conduct body, upon any student
found to have violated the Code of Student Conduct.
1.	 Written Warning. Written notice to the student that his/her actions are
inappropriate and the individual must act more responsibly in the future. A
Written Warning also indicates that should the individual again be referred for
disciplinary action more serious sanctions will be assigned.
2.	 Probation. A notice to the student that his/her actions are of a serious nature
within the College community. Probation shall be for a designated period of
time and includes the probability of more severe disciplinary sanctions if the
student is found to be violating any College policies during the probationary
period. For resident students, any violation committed during the probationary
period will result in a review of the student’s housing assignment. This sanction
results in the loss of two (2) priority points.
3.	 Disciplinary Probation. A notice to the student that his/her actions are unacceptable within the College community. This sanction shall be primarily used
in cases of serious or consistent policy violations. Disciplinary Probation
shall be for a designated period of time and includes the probability of more
severe disciplinary sanctions if the student is found to be violating any College
policies during the probationary period. Any violation committed during the
probationary period will result in a review of the student’s status at Marist.
This sanction results in the loss of three (3) priority points.
4.	 Deferred Residence Hall Suspension. A definite period of observation and
review. If a student is again found responsible for any further College policy
violations including failure to complete previously imposed sanctions or adhere
to previously imposed conditions, restriction from College-operated housing
and housing grounds will be immediately imposed for a definite period of
time. This sanction results in the loss of four (4) priority points.
5.	 Residence Hall Dismissal. Permanent removal of the student from the residence facility. This sanction most likely will result in permanent ban from all
residence facilities. (Please note that students dismissed from the residence
facility for disciplinary reasons will not be entitled to any refund of residence
fees).
6.	 Deferred Suspension from the College. A definite period of observation and
review. If a student is again found responsible for any further College policy
violations including failure to complete previously imposed sanctions or adhere
to previously imposed conditions, at minimum, the student will automatically
be recommended for suspension for a minimum of one semester. This sanction
results in the loss of six (6) priority points.
7.	 Disciplinary Suspension. A recommendation to the Suspension Review Panel
which calls for the separation of the student from the College for a definite
period of time, after which the student is eligible to return. Conditions for
readmission may be specified. The Suspension Review Panel shall review the
recommendation and determine the final sanction, pending appeal. (Please
note that students suspended for disciplinary reasons will not be entitled to
any refund of tuition or residence fees). Unless otherwise noted, students
who are suspended for disciplinary reasons are also banned from all College
grounds, facilities, classes and college sponsored activities on or off campus
for the duration of the suspension.
188

8.	 Disciplinary Dismissal. A recommendation to the Suspension Review Panel
that calls for permanent separation of the student from the College. The
Suspension Review Panel shall review the recommendation and determine
the final sanction, pending appeal. (Please note that students dismissed for
disciplinary reasons will not be entitled to any refund of tuition or residence
fees). Unless otherwise noted, students who are dismissed for disciplinary
reasons are also banned from all College grounds, facilities, classes and college
sponsored activities on or off campus.
9.	 Loss of Privileges. Denial of specified privileges for a designated period of
time. These include, but are not limited to:
a.	 A restriction from hosting visitors and/or guests.
b.	 A restriction from being a visitor in or entering a specified Residence Facility.
c.	 Restriction from College-sponsored extracurricular activities both on and
off campus (including Senior Week and Commencement).
d.	 Other restrictions, as approved by the Student Conduct Officer.
10.	Substance Education Program. A workshop, in person or online, addressing
substance abuse education issues. Referral to an off-campus education diversion program may also be recommended.
11.	Restitution. Compensation for loss, damage or injury. This may take the form
of appropriate community service and/or monetary or material replacement.
12.	Monetary Fines. The College generally does not impose fines for violations of
the Code of Student Conduct. However; fines will be imposed for violations
that impact the health and/or safety of members of the Marist Community.
Please refer to the Alcohol Policy, Windows/Doors, Walls Policy, and the Fire
and Safety Regulations for specific information.
13.	Mandated Room Reassignment. A notice that the behavior merits the immediate relocation of the student to another campus residence. This decision will
be made in conjunction with the Office of Housing and Residential Life.
14.	Mandated Counseling Assessment. The student must attend an assessment
and/or session in the Counseling Center or an off-campus licensed facility
by a specific date. Unless otherwise stated by the student conduct body, the
student is required to follow all recommendations made by the Counseling
Center or off-campus licensed facility as a result of the assessment.
15.	Discretionary Sanctions. Work assignments, community service, and other
related sanctions that meet with the approval of the Director of Student Conduct.
Other sanctions include but are not limited to:
a.	 Letters of apology/thank you
b.	 Essay or research paper on assigned topic
c.	 Disqualification from future housing selection process
d.	 Program presentations
B.	 PRIORITY POINT LOSS. ANY STUDENTS ON DEFERRED RESIDENCE
HALL SUSPENSION OR THOSE THAT LOST SIX (6) HOUSING PRIORITY POINTS OR MORE MAY NOT BE ALLOWED TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE HOUSING ROOM SELECTION PROCESS AND MAY NOT BE
ELIGIBLE FOR COLLEGE HOUSING.
189

C.	 More than one of the sanctions listed above may be imposed for any single
violation.
D.	 Other than Disciplinary Suspension and Disciplinary Dismissal, disciplinary
sanctions shall not be made part of the student’s permanent file but shall become
part of the student’s confidential disciplinary record maintained in the Office of
Student Conduct as per FERPA requirements.
E.	 In some instances, a student conduct body may recommend sanctions to the
Conduct Officer, based on a lack of detailed knowledge of how the sanction will
be developed and supervised. In those instances, the sanction may be developed by
the Conduct Officer, who will determine if the sanction is appropriate, and whether
or not to create a new sanction that is directly proportionate to the recommended
sanction. The Conduct Officer shall report his/her sanction back to the student
conduct body to ensure consistency.
F.	 The following terms shall apply to all Disciplinary Suspensions and Disciplinary
Dismissals, unless otherwise noted by the Vice President for Student Affairs.
1.	 The individual is restricted from all College grounds, facilities, classes and
college sponsored activities on or off campus for the duration of the suspension.
2.	 The individual must petition the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs to receive
permission for any amendment to the restriction noted in #1 above.
3.	 At the discretion of the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, a student who was
suspended may be required to meet specific conditions once readmitted to the
College.

Section XII
Interim Sanctions

A.	 In certain circumstances, the Vice President for Student Affairs, the Assistant Dean
for Student Affairs or his/her designee, may impose a Disciplinary Suspension,
Residence Hall Suspension, Mandated Room Reassignment or other restrictions
prior to the hearing before a student conduct body.
B.	 In certain circumstances, the Director of Housing & Residential Life or his/her
designee, may impose a Residence Hall Suspension, Mandated Room Reassignment or other restrictions prior to the hearing before a student conduct body.
C.	 In all cases, Interim Sanctions will be imposed only:
1.	 To ensure the safety and well-being of members of the community or preservation of College property; or
2.	 To ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and well being; or
3.	 If the student poses a definite threat of disruption and/or interference with the
normal operations of the College; or
4.	 If the student has violated the Code of Student Conduct or College policies
while residing in summer or break housing.
D.	 During an Interim Suspension, students shall be denied access to the residence
facilities and/or to the campus (including classes) and/or all other College activities or privileges for which the student might otherwise be eligible, as the Vice
President for Student Affairs, the Assistant Dean of Student Life & Development
or his/her designee may determine to be appropriate.
190

E.	 Whenever an interim sanction is imposed, the Office of Student Conduct shall
convene a hearing at the earliest possible time, pending normal student rights
requirements. The interim sanction may remain in effect until a final decision
has been reached, including any appropriate appeals process, at the discretion of
the Vice President for Student Affairs of his/her designee.

Section XIII
Appeals

A.	 A decision reached or sanction imposed by a student conduct body may be appealed
by the charged students or complainants to the appropriate appeal body within
five business days of initial written receipt of the decision. Such appeals shall
be in writing and shall be delivered to the Conduct Officer or his/her designee.
Complainants may only appeal sanctions imposed for misconduct, not the finding
of violations. Appellate bodies shall only consider written information that is
available at the time that a request for an appeal is being reviewed.
B.	 Except as required to explain the basis of new evidence, an appeal shall be limited
to review of the verbatim record of the proceedings and/or supporting documents
for one or more of the following purposes:
1.	 Procedural Error. To determine whether the original hearing was conducted
fairly in light of the charges and information presented, and in conformity with
the prescribed procedures giving the complaining party a reasonable opportunity to prepare and present information that the Code of Student Conduct was
violated, and giving the charged student a reasonable opportunity to prepare
and to present a rebuttal of those allegations. Deprivation of Student Rights
shall be considered Procedural Error.
2.	 Unsupported Conclusion. To determine whether the decision reached regarding
the charged student was based on substantial information, that is, whether the
facts in the case were sufficient to establish that a violation of the Code of
Student Conduct occurred.
3.	 Disproportionate Sanction. To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed
were appropriate for the violation of the Code of Student Conduct which the
student was found to have committed.
4.	 New Information. To consider new information, sufficient to alter a decision
or other relevant facts not brought out at the original hearing, because such
information and/or facts were not known to the person appealing at the time
of the original hearing.
C.	 The student conduct body reviewing the appeal may, after reviewing all available
information, elect to:
1.	 Affirm the finding and sanction originally determined.
2.	 Affirm the finding and modify the sanction. In cases where the charged student
is the appealing party, the sanction may be reduced or increased by the conduct
body reviewing the appeal.
3.	 Remand the case to the original conduct body for a new hearing, except in
cases where the complainant is the appealing party.
4.	 Dismiss the case, except in cases where the complainant is the appealing party.

191

D.	 Since deference shall be given to the determinations of student conduct bodies:
1.	 Sanctions should only be increased or reduced if found to be grossly disproportionate to the gravity of the offense, precedent for similar offenses and/or
the charged student’s prior disciplinary record.
2.	 Cases should be remanded to the original conduct body if specified procedural
errors were so substantial as to effectively deny the charged student a fair hearing.
3.	 Cases should be dismissed only if the finding of the conduct body is held to
be arbitrary and capricious.
E.	 Generally, the imposition of sanctions will be deferred during the period of
appellate proceedings.
F.	 Appeals of decisions will be reviewed in the following manner:
1.	 All appeals will be screened by the Student Conduct Officer to ensure they
meet the criteria established above for the filing of an appeal. If the appeal
does not meet one of the four criteria it will be denied by the Student Conduct
Officer. In cases where the Conduct Officer served in the role of student
conduct body, the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs or his/her designee shall
appoint another individual to review the appeal.
2.	 Decisions of Resident Directors will be reviewed by the Director of Student
Conduct or his/her designee.
3.	 Decisions of the, College Hearing and Administrative Hearing Panels at this
level shall be reviewed by the College Appeals Committee.
4.	 Recommendations of Disciplinary Suspension or Disciplinary Dismissal
imposed by the College Hearing Panel or Administrative Hearing officer(s)
will be reviewed by the Suspension Review Panel.
5.	 Suspension/Dismissal decisions of the Suspension Review Panel may be
appealed in writing within five business days of initial receipt of the decision
to the Vice President for Student Affairs.
6.	 If the Suspension Review Panel does not uphold a recommendation for Suspension or Dismissal, the decision may be appealed in writing within five business
days of initial receipt of the decision to the College Appeals Committee.
G.	 The College Appeals Committee
1.	 Shall be composed of two faculty/staff members and one student justice who
has been assigned on a yearly appointment to the Committee. The Director
of Student Conduct or his/her designee shall appoint the justices.
2.	 Shall be supervised in its deliberations by the Conduct Officer, unless the
Conduct Officer has served in the capacity of student conduct body for the case
under review. In such instances, the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs or his/
her designee shall select another administrator to supervise the proceedings of
the Committee.
H.	 The Suspension Review Panel
1.	 Shall be composed of two faculty/staff members and one student justice who
has been assigned to a yearly appointment to the Committee. The Director of
Student Conduct or his/her designee shall appoint the justices.
2.	 Shall be supervised in its deliberation by the Conduct Officer, unless the Conduct
Officer has served in the capacity of conduct body for the case under review. In
such instances, the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/her designee shall
select another administrator to supervise the proceedings of the Panel.
192

SECTION XIV
Involuntary Leave and Withdrawal of Students for
Medical Reasons

A student will be subject to leave/withdrawal for medical reasons if the Case Consultation Team (the Director of Health Services, the Director of Counseling Center,
the Director of Housing and Residential Life and/or the Vice President for Student
Affairs designee) concludes, on the basis of clear and convincing evidence, that
the student is suffering from a medical or mental health disorder, as defined by the
current American Psychiatric Association diagnostic manual or its equivalent; and,
further, that as a result of the condition, the student engages or threatens to engage in
behavior that poses a danger of causing harm to the student or to others, or disrupts
the activities of other members of the campus community.
A detailed description of the policy and procedures can be found in the Office of the
Vice President for Student Affairs, Rotunda 389.

Section XV
Winter and Summer Sessions

During the period between full academic semesters, all College discipline will be
handled as established below.
A.	 All reports will be reviewed by the Director of Student Conduct or her designee
who will determine whether or not disciplinary charges are warranted.
B.	 If the incident under review occurred during the spring semester but was unable to
be handled prior to the summer, the Director of Student Conduct will review the
complaint and determine what policies have been violated and what sanctions are
merited. Notification of the decision will then be sent to the student’s permanent
address, unless it is known by the College that the student is residing at another
location. The charged student shall have the option to accept the decision, or to
file notice with the Office of Student Conduct within thirty (30) calendar days of
the date of the letter and request a hearing for the alleged violations. Should the
charged student accept the finding of the Director of Student Conduct, they will
be expected to comply with the sanctions according to the time line established
in the letter of notification.
C.	 In the event where the Conduct Officer believes that Disciplinary Suspension or
Disciplinary Dismissal could be an outcome, an Administrative Hearing will be
convened at the earliest possible time, at the discretion of the Conduct Officer.
Should it not be possible to resolve the case during the summer, a hearing will be
held at the beginning of the fall semester.
D.	 If the student is known to be attending Marist during the summer sessions when
an incident occurs, the case may be handled under the guidelines that apply during
the regular academic year, and the Conduct Officer shall serve as the conduct body.
Any appeal of a decision made at this level that does not include Disciplinary
Suspension or Disciplinary Dismissal shall be heard at the beginning of the fall
semester.

193

Section XVI
Disciplinary Files and Records

A.	 The Office of Student Conduct shall maintain disciplinary records and a disciplinary tracking system, which shall include, but not be limited to, the charged student’s
name and related information, description of the incident, parties involved, Code
violations, sanctions and other data deemed relevant by the Office of Student
Conduct. Such information shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions
of the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”). Disciplinary
records shall be made available to conduct bodies and College officials designated
in the Code of Student Conduct as necessary.
B.	 Students may arrange to review their own disciplinary records by contacting the
Office of Student Conduct. Except as provided in the Code of Student Conduct
and by College policy regarding parental notification or pursuant to a lawfully
issued subpoena, the College shall not communicate a student’s disciplinary record
and related information to any person or agency without the prior written consent
of the student.
C.	 Student’s confidential record may be expunged of disciplinary actions, other than
Disciplinary Suspension or Disciplinary Dismissal seven years after the final
disposition. All cases in which a student received the sanction of Disciplinary
Suspension or Dismissal are permanent and will not be expunged.

Section XVII
Academic Honesty

The Academic Honesty Policy is administered through the Division of Academic
Affairs. Please see the Student Handbook for details regarding procedures for
allegations of academic dishonesty.

Section XVIII
Interpretation and Revision

A.	 Any question of interpretation regarding the Code shall be referred to the Vice
President of Student Affairs or his/her designee.
B.	 The Code shall be reviewed annually under the direction of the Conduct Officer.

194

Section XiX
fire safety information

All buildings are equipped with fire alarm systems. All systems are tested and
inspected annually by a New York State certified fire alarm installer. All fire alarm
systems are monitored 24/7 off campus by a central monitoring station as well as
by the Safety and Security Office on campus. Fire alarm pull states are located near
the exits. For your safety, whenever the fire alarm sounds, evacuate the building
immediately using the nearest exit. Treat all alarms as the real thing – assume nothing!
Behavior of any kind, which inadvertently activates a fire alarm, may be subject to
disciplinary action. Failure to evacuate an area may also result in disciplinary action.

FIRE Response Plan

The following procedures should be followed in case of FIRE:
Rescue and Relocate anyone in immediate danger.
Alert others by activating the fire alarm system and/or call Security at Ext. 5555
from a safe location.
Confine the emergency by closing the doors.
Evacuate immediately. Use stairs, do not use elevators. If in heat or smoke, crawl
low. If there is smoke in the corridor, stay in the room, close and seal doors, dial Ext.
5555 for help and then stand by the window.

FIRE ALARM Procedures

1.	 All students, staff and faculty are required to evacuate the building during a fire
alarm.
2.	 If a fire alarm sounds, immediately proceed to the nearest exit. The last person
out should close the door. If smoke hampers your means of evacuating, find an
alternative route.
3.		Do NOT use the elevator to evacuate the building, CRAWL low in a smoky
condition. Use the stairs in order to evacuate safely.
4.	 Always know two ways out and familiarize yourself with the escape routes in the
event of an emergency.
5.	 If you observe other people in the building who may be unfamiliar with the alarm,
advise them of the fire alarm and suggest that they evacuate. DO NOT force them
to leave or become confrontational. Once outside, report their location to a Safety
and Security Officer.
6.	 Proceed to a pre-designated assembly area, away from the building. Do not stand
in front of or near the entrances to the building. An explosion may spread debris
over a large area. DO NOT block fire department access to the building.
7.	 Do not re-enter the building until the fire alarm has been silenced and the Safety
and Security Officer or the Fairview Fire Department has indicated that it is safe
to re-enter.

195

FIRE Evacuation Procedures

College buildings are to be evacuated immediately when the fire alarm is activated
under the following conditions:
1.	 When evacuating the building, use the nearest exit if possible.
2.	 Before you open a door, feel the door with the back of your hand. If the door
is hot or you can see fire or smoke in the corridor, do not pass through. Stay in
the room. Pack towels (preferably wet) under the door to prevent smoke entry.
Contract the Office of Safety and Security (Ext. 5555) and report your location.
Then proceed to the window and wave a brightly colored cloth to draw attention
to your location. Open the window; do not break the window.
3.	 If the door is cool, open it slowly. If there is no smoke, proceed to the nearest exit.
If the smoke is light, crawl low to the nearest exit. If you encounter smoke along
the way, choose an alternative escape route. Make sure the doors close behind
you to prevent the spread of smoke.
4.	 Once outside, proceed to the designated area, away from the building and doors.
Make sure that everyone is accounted for. If occupants were unable to get out of
the building, or if they cannot be found, report this to the Office of Safety and
Security Officer at the scene.

FIRE Evacuation Procedures for persons with disabilities

1.	 If the occupant, resident or visitor is located on the ground floor of the building,
exit through the nearest exit.
2.	 If the occupant, resident or visitor is located above or below the ground floor,
do not use the elevator. Call the Office of Safety and Security at Ext. 5555 or
845-575-5555, give the dispatcher your name, exact location, room number and
telephone number.
3.	 The disabled person should proceed or ask for assistance to the nearest enclosed
or exterior stairwell or “area of safe refuge” and remain there. In case of a fire,
enclosed building stairwells are “safe refuge areas” and have a higher fire resistive rating. The disabled person should notify an individual (i.e., a co-worker,
supervisor, instructor or building monitor) of their specific location. If possible,
the disabled person can notify 9-1-1 of their location.
During an emergency event, remain clear of emergency vehicles at all times.
Maintain a safe distance, no less than 50 feet away from the building to enable
the fire department to enter and operate safely.
For additional fire safety information and annual fire stat for residence, you can visit
http://www.marist.edu/security.

General Fire Safety Policies

1.	 Make a reasonable effort to extinguish small fires by using fire extinguishers or
turning off electrically driven equipment.
2.	 No storage of personal items or placement of furniture or boxes in exits, corridors
or stairwells.
3.	 Do not overload electrical outlets or use extension cords.
4.	 Handle flammable liquids with care.
5.	 Do not leave appliances unattended in kitchens.
6.	 Good housekeeping is essential for a fire safe residence.
196

7.	 If your clothes catch fire, stop-drop-roll.
8.	 The doors within a building, especially in stairways and in corridors, are required
to meet state and local fire codes. Doors in stairwells must never be propped open.
Open doors will allow the spread of smoke and fire to the exits, rendering them
useless.
9.	 Identify and walk through your emergency escape routes so that you will be
familiar with them in the event of a fire.
10.	Know where the building meeting location is in the event of an emergency
evacuation.
11.	All buildings on Marist College property are smoke free. Smoking outside is
permitted, however, you must be AT LEAST 25 feet from the building.

Adjacent Land and Waterfront Properties

Along the eastern bank of the Hudson River, not all land is owned by the College.
The College (with the support of appropriate authorities) does not tolerate the invasion of these lands by members of our community. Any invasion of these private
properties will be pursued by the Office of Student Conduct. Therefore, unauthorized
gatherings are not permitted along the riverfront, whether on college property or on
adjacent land. When alcoholic beverages or illegal substances are discovered, they
will be confiscated and appropriate sanctions will be imposed on those found to be
in violation of policy. The same policy applies to lands adjacent to campus residence
areas such as the railroad tracks by the main campus and next to the lower and upper
West Cedar Apartments.

Pedestrian and Motorist Responsibilities on Route 9

Please read the following information carefully and if you have any questions contact
the Office of Safety and Security (telephone 845-471-1822; e-mail John.Gildard@
marist.edu).

Enforcement by Local Police and Marist Security

The Town of Poughkeepsie Police Department will enforce the laws in regard to both
motorists (speeding & no turn on red) and Pedestrians (crossing when the “don’t
walk” indicator is displayed or not crossing at intersections). Marist security staff
will also monitor Pedestrian activity at the crosswalks. When stopped on campus by
Marist Security, students are required to identify themselves and/or produce valid ID.

Pedestrian Responsibilities

The New York State Vehicle and Traffic (V & T) Law has been publicized to provide
for the safe use of the highways by all our residents and visitors including both motorists and Pedestrians. Both Motorists and Pedestrians, who fail to obey the V & T law,
risk not only injury or death but could also receive a traffic ticket. Just as a person
who fails to stop at a red light can receive a summons, a Pedestrian can also receive
a summons for (a) failure to obey a traffic signal that prohibits them from crossing
until the signal light indicates that it is safe to do so; and (b) crossing a roadway in
violation of posted signs prohibiting such crossing.
The State Traffic Law regarding Pedestrians who cross at crosswalks regulated by
Traffic Lights requires Pedestrians to obey the traffic signals when using crosswalks
at intersections controlled by traffic lights. It is a violation of the State Traffic
Law for a person to cross when a “don’t walk” signal is displayed and the person
can receive a traffic summons (ticket) from the police. This violation is commonly
known as “jaywalking.”
197

It is also unlawful for Pedestrians to walk on the roadway when sidewalks are provided.
Pedestrians at uncontrolled crosswalks (no traffic light) are not permitted to suddenly
leave the curb/sidewalk so that it is impractical for a motorist to stop.
•	 Receiving a ticket for “jaywalking” requires the violator to attend a court hearing
and if found guilty can result in a fine, possibly as high as $100.00.
•	 Students who receive two or more summonses from the Town Police or citations
from Marist Security in a semester will face student conduct action and may be
placed on disciplinary probation.

Motorists Responsibilities

Motorists are required to obey all traffic laws. The V & T Law requires motorists
to exercise due care to avoid collisions with pedestrians and bicyclists using the
roadways. When no traffic control device (traffic light) is in place at the crosswalk,
motorists are required to yield the right of way to a pedestrian within the crosswalk.

Emergency Call Boxes

Emergency call boxes are located in numerous areas on campus. If you need to
reach the Security office, you need only to follow the directions on the box to call
the Security Office. These call boxes are located in the following areas on Campus:
Beck Place - East Lot/Beck Place - West Lot
Boat House
Fontaine Annex
Foy Townhouses
Fulton Street Townhouses - Parking Lots and Center Sidewalk
Gartland E - North Parking Lot
Hoop Lot - Lower/Hoop Lot - Upper
Lower West Cedar - P Block/Lower West Cedar - R Block
McCann - North side by some emergency doors
Riverview
Sheahan - bottom of steps in Parking Lot
St. Ann’s Garage
Steel Plant - North Side, facing Beck Lot
Student Center - Rear Loading Dock
Talmadge Court
Upper West Cedar - T Block/Upper West Cedar - V Block
Upper West Cedar - W Block/Upper West Cedar - Laundry Room

198

Off–Campus Student Information
Marist students are expected to respect and abide by local ordinances and state and
federal statues both on and off campus. As members of the academic community,,
students are held accountable to the College’s Code of Student Conduct that clarifies
those behavioral standards considered essential to the fulfillment of the College’s
philosophy, mission and goals.
The Office of Student Conduct, in conjunction with the Vice President for Student
Affairs, will determine when the College will take action for allegations of off-campus
misconduct that also violate College policies and/or federal, state or local laws,
students or ordinances.
Students living off campus should review the College’s Code of Student Conduct and
familiarize themselves with campus policies, procedures and sanctions.

Violation of Law and College Discipline

A.	 If a student is charged only with an off-campus violation of Federal, State or
local law, but not with any other violation of this Code, disciplinary action may
be taken and sanctions imposed by the Vice President for Student Affairs or his/
her designee for grave misconduct which demonstrates flagrant disregard for the
College community.
B.	 College disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged
with a violation of a law that is also a violation of the Code, for example, if both
violations result from the same factual situation, without regard to the status of
civil litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under
this Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or
criminal proceedings off-campus.
C.	 When a student is charged by Federal, State or local authorities with a violation
of law, the College will not request or agree to special consideration for that
individual because of his/her status as a student. If the alleged offense is also the
subject of a proceeding before a student conduct body under the Code, however,
the College may advise off-campus authorities of the existence of the Code of
Student Conduct and of how such matters will be handled internally within the
College community. The College will cooperate fully with law enforcement and
other agencies in the enforcement of criminal law on campus and in the conditions
imposed by criminal courts for the rehabilitation of student violators. Individual
students and faculty members, acting in their personal capacities, remain free to
interact with governmental representatives as they deem appropriate.

Good Neighbor Policy

One of the most important things you must do while you are getting settled into your
apartment/house is to meet the neighbors. A relationship that starts off on the right
foot is more likely to have open communication throughout your time off campus.
It is recommended that you exchange phone numbers with your neighbors. Having
done this, you are more likely to get a call from them than a visit from the police.
When you are away from your apartment for winter and spring breaks, your neighbors
will be an asset in maintaining the security of your belongings if you have a positive
relationship with them. Remember, your neighbors have living in this community
for many years and deserve your respect and cooperation as a Marist student.

199

Town & City of Poughkeepsie Noise Ordinance

Between the hours of 10:00 PM and 7:00 AM the noise ordinance for the town and
city are in effect, prohibiting “unreasonable noise”. A violation may result from a
noisy party or social gathering, screaming, loud music, shouting or taxi cabs honking
their horns outside your residence.
In the City, you will have to appear in court with possible fines of up to $300 and
jail time. In the Town, the first violation conviction shall be punishable by a fine of
$250 per resident with repeat violations up to a $1000 fine.

200

Resident Student Handbook
Residential Life Mission Statement

Residential life can be an integral part of the total educational experience. The
residential life program at Marist College is based upon the philosophy of providing
students with a safe, healthy, and attractive living environment that supports and
supplements the educational mission of the College.

Rites of Passage

Marist College houses students according to a “rites of passage” philosophy which
recognizes that a student’s developmental stage should be supported by his/her living
environment. Therefore, freshmen students are housed in residence areas designed
to promote social interaction, and are staffed with individuals trained to work with
freshmen and their specific adjustment issues. As students move from freshmen to
senior year they move toward more independent living environments (suite style,
apartment style) which helps to prepare them for their eventual move out into the
world following graduation. Along the way they acquire certain freedoms and
responsibilities that will help them develop into mature and responsible citizens.

Staff in Residence

The resident student must bear in mind that residence on campus in a residence facility
is not an inalienable right. Therefore, when a student chooses to live on campus,
it is assumed that he/she fully accepts the regulations that follow and agrees to the
policies and regulations of communal residence on campus.
A.	 The Resident Director has the administrative responsibility for the individual
residence area and its residents. The responsibilities of the Resident Director
include supervision of the Resident Assistants, promoting a safe and productive
academic atmosphere in the resident area, and managing disciplinary cases within
a value-based community. The Resident Director is assisted in this responsibility
by the residents of the facility, the Assistant Resident Director, the Resident
Assistants, the First Year Coordinators, and the Resident Student Council.
B.	 Assistant Resident Directors and Resident Assistants are upper-class students
living in residence areas. Their responsibilities include:
1.	 Counseling students on academic, personal or social matters.
2.	 Area programming.
3.	 Supporting responsible hall governance.
4.	 Supervising and enforcing administrative policies and regulations.
5.	 Fostering an atmosphere conducive to study and orderly behavior.
6.	 Referring students to appropriate student services on campus.
7.	 Overseeing and reporting maintenance concerns. The Residential Life Staff
operates with delegated authority from the Vice President for Student Affairs in
counseling and disciplinary matters and is to exercise leadership in their area.
	 For this reason, refusal to comply with a direction of a Resident Assistant,
Assistant Resident Director, Resident Director, Entry Officer or Security Officer
is considered a serious matter and a violation of the Code of Student Conduct.
C.	 First Year Coordinators in freshmen residence areas provide personal and academic
support to students.
201

D.	 The Resident Student Council consists of elected residents of the area, Resident
Assistants, and the Resident Director. Responsibilities of Resident Student Council:
1.	 Monitors good order in the residence area to generate and ensure an atmosphere
conducive to the intellectual and social development of the residents.
2.	 Provides programs that foster community in the halls.
3.	 Communicates student issues and concerns to Student Government Association
through the Student Life Council.

E-Mail Communication

For validation purposes, all e-mail communication with all Student Affairs offices
must originate from the official, college-issued, Fox mail account, which utilizes a
student’s first and last names.

Party Registration Policy

If a student resides in a residence unit (apartment or townhouse) where the majority of
students are over 21, only those students over 21 may purchase, possess or consume
alcohol. If all members of the residence are over 21 years of age, the group may
sponsor an event where alcohol is consumed. Sponsors of the party need to contact
their Resident Director to complete the Party Registration Form ONE WEEK in
advance of the planned party date.

Residential Life Policies and Procedures

Each resident is expected to act in a way that promotes an atmosphere of mutual respect
and cooperation. The Housing & Residential Life Office is committed to providing an
environment within the residence areas that encourages this atmosphere by expecting
students to live by certain standards and to adhere to specific norms of behavior.
The College reserves the right:
1.	 To accept or reject students for residency.
2.	 To approve, upon request of a resident student, relocation within our residence
facility and to relocate resident students without consent for sufficient reason.
3.	 To have students in residence carry a minimum of 12 credits and be enrolled as a
full time undergraduate for the semester in which they are housed. All students
living in residence must pay full tuition. Any request for exceptions to this policy
must be approved by the Office of Housing & Residential Life.
4.	 To refuse a student’s request for housing because the student’s room and/or
apartment was left in poor condition at the end of the previous semester or year,
because of disciplinary history and/or failure to comply with departure procedures.
5.	 To plan for the most efficient or effective use of the resident facilities which may
entail a change in the following room reservation procedures:
A.	 Concerning the request, occupation and withdrawal from residency, the
administration of the College has declared the following:
1.	 Room request deposit fee for returning students and for new students is
$200.00.
2.	 This deposit assures a new freshman student of space only. Returning
resident students who submit their Advance Room Deposit are only ensured
of the right to participate in the Housing Room Selection Process.

202

3.	 Refund on Residence: Any student who withdraws from college housing
but not from the College during the first week of a semester will be charged
$50.00 for the room and will forfeit the room reservation deposit. Should
a student withdraw after the first week and before the beginning of the
fourth week, a refund of one-half residence charge will be made. For any
withdrawal from college housing after the beginning of the fourth week,
no refund will be allowed. The dates and amount of refunds posted in the
Academic Calendar for tuition refunds apply to residence refunds as well.
4.	 Students remaining in a build up situation after the tuition refund date will
be eligible for a room credit that will be applied to their student account.
However, if a student declines a room build up breakdown offer, then the
credit will be forfeited.
B.	 Concerning the location and relocation of resident students, the administration
of the College has declared the following:
1.	 Residents are allowed to request their rooms and roommates under certain
guidelines established by the Director of Housing & Residential Life.
2.	 The College reserves the right to relocate students. Relocation of a resident
student, without his/her consent and unrelated to disciplinary and psychological reasons, is sometimes necessary for the good of the community.
Due to the inconvenience involved, the Director of Housing & Residential
Life or his/her designee will hold such relocations to a bare minimum.
3.	 Room changes during the first semester are not permitted until the second
week of classes for upper-class students. These changes and all subsequent
changes must be approved by the Assistant Director and/or the Director of
Housing and Residential Life. All unapproved room changes will result in
disciplinary action and the directive for each student to return to his/her
approved residence assignment.
4.	 It should be noted that as a rule, in the freshman areas, residence changes
will not be made in the first semester. Freshmen are strongly encouraged
to work out roommate conflicts. Residence changes will only be granted
in extenuating circumstances at the discretion of the Resident Director and
First Year Coordinator.
C.	 All residences must be kept clean, neat and orderly. Students are responsible for
providing cleaning supplies and cleaning their own residence. Students living
in suites and apartments are responsible for cleaning bathrooms, kitchens, and
common areas. The college only provides toilet paper in community residence
hall areas.
D.	 The College cannot assume responsibility for any loss or damage to personal
property of a student. During summer vacations, no articles may be stored in
student rooms. The College does not assume responsibility for articles stored
elsewhere on campus. Students are encouraged to secure liability/theft insurance
through their own family coverage and/or purchase supplemental insurance.
E.	 When a student vacates his/her room, or withdraws from housing and/or the
College the apartment/room key must be turned in to the Resident Director.
For security reasons a vacating student will be charged for a new lock if all
keys are not accounted for. All personal belongings must be removed from the
room/apartment within 24 hours of vacating the room, or withdrawing from
housing/College. Any unclaimed items may be donated to charity.
203

F.	 When a student is locked out of his/her room; the following procedures should
be followed:
1.	 Students are required to carry their room keys at all times.
2.	 Lockouts will be done at the availability of staff as identified below. It
may not be possible for a lock out to be done immediately.
3.	 When a lock-out occurs during the day, it is the responsibility of the student
involved to locate his/her roommate in order to gain access to the room.
4.	 If a roommate is not available, the students should check with each RA in
the residence area.
5.	 Monday to Friday, from 1:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m., Resident Directors have
office hours in their respective areas and are available to assist with lockouts provided that they have no scheduled appointments.
6.	 If a lock-out occurs from 7 p.m. - midnight, the student involved should
seek the Resident Assistant who is on duty for the area.
7.	 Students may contact the Office of Safety & Security for assistance at ext.
2282, midnight to 11:00 a.m.

Regulations specific to Residence Living

The following restrictions have been developed to promote both individual and community responsibility in the residence halls. Their violation will result in disciplinary
action. Regulations may vary from hall to hall. In these instances, proper notification
will be given by the Resident Director and/or the Office of Housing & Residential Life.
1.	 Noise Policy.
a.	 Noise that can be clearly heard outside of one’s immediate residence hall room
or excessive noise in a common area (e.g., hallways, bathrooms, lounges, etc.)
during established quiet hours. Quiet Hours for all residence areas begin at
10:00 pm Sunday through Thursday and end at 8:00 am. Weekend (Friday and
Saturday) quiet hours begin at 1:00 am (doors close at 11:00 pm) and end at
10:00 am. The week prior to and during final exams, Quiet Hours will be in
effect for twenty-four (24) hours.
b.	 At all times, however, respect of others’ needs for quiet to sleep and study is
expected, also known as Courtesy Hours.
2.	 Appliances and Cooking. Cooking is not to occur in individual residence hall
rooms. Cooking may only occur in areas designated by residence hall staff. All
electrical cooking appliances are prohibited. The possession of College-approved
microwaves and refrigerators constitute an approved exemption to this policy.
Information regarding approved appliances may be found in the Fire Safety section.
3.	 Guest Policy. All students are responsible for the actions of their guests for any
violations committed on College premises, or at College-sponsored or supervised
functions. In other words, the student/host will be charged with a violation of
the Guest Policy for violations committed by their guests. All guests of first year
students must be registered. Guests will be issued passes, which they are expected
to carry at all times. In addition, hosts are required to accompany their guests at
all times. Failure to properly register or sign-in guests is a violation of this policy.
Guests are not permitted in residence areas during “Break Housing” periods. (For
guidelines related to obtaining guest passes and Break Housing, please refer to
the Visitation and Guest Policy and Break Housing Policy sections.)
204

4.	 Visitation. Students are expected to comply with the visitation option that has
been established for each residence hall room. In all cases, a student’s right to
have a quiet place to sleep and study takes precedence over utilizing a room for
any other reason.
5.	 Pets. Pets are not allowed in residence areas, with the exception of fish, which are
kept in tanks that are 10 gallons or less and do not require filters, heaters or lights.
6.	 Furniture. Including but not limited to:
a.	 Unauthorized lofts (including bed risers) and waterbeds are not permitted in
the residence halls.
b.	 Furniture that is designated as lounge furniture is not permitted in individual
student rooms or common rooms.
c.	 Furniture (including loft kits) designated to a specific residence can only be
moved out of that room with authorization from residential life staff.
d.	 Non-College furniture items that do not meet fire resistance requirements are
prohibited in the residence area. Contact the Office of Housing & Residential
Life to determine if additional furniture meets fire safety regulations.
e.	 Painting, use of decals on furniture, walls, mirrors, sinks or windows and contact paper for shelving, lining drawers or covering furniture tops is prohibited.
f.	 When beds are bunked or lofted, the bed ends serve as the bunk bed/loft ladder.
g.	 College furniture is not to be removed from residence areas.
7.	 Windows/Doors/Walls. In order to protect the safety and right to reasonable quiet
of students within the residence areas and to protect the safety of those people
who pass by the residence areas, the College has created guidelines for students
regarding windows. Any student found in violation of this policy may be issued
a $150.00 fine.
	 These include but are not limited to prohibitions against:
a.	 Sitting or climbing on window ledges.
b.	 Removing screens from windows.
c.	 Excessive noise coming from windows (e.g., speakers on the windowsill or
yelling out of the windows).
d.	 Throwing, tossing or dropping items out of windows.
e.	 Placing objects (such as antennae) outside of residence facility windows.
f.	 Propping open external or hallway doors.
g.	 Climbing through windows.
h.	 Nails, tape, posting putty, etc. may not be used to fasten objects to the walls.
(Consult Residential Life staff for a listing of approved adhesives).
i.	 Nothing may be mounted on the outside window. This includes decals, flags,
signs, posters and electrical advertising.
j.	 No items may be hung from the ceiling, ceiling light fixtures or curtains.
8.	 Other Resident Policies. Other residence hall policies, as defined by the Director of
Housing and Residential Life or her/his designee. These policies shall be properly
communicated to the College community in a timely manner.

205

Residence Selection Process

Resident students at Marist College are placed in college housing through the College’s Housing Priority Point System. The Priority Point System is unique in that
it allocates points to each student in various academic and personal categories that
directly affect the students’ eligibility for housing. The system is designed to reward
the student who excels academically and who contributes productively to the Marist
College community. There are five categories where points may be earned. The
categories are: Grade Point Average; Campus Involvement; Disciplinary History;
Room Damages; and Condition of Room.
A.	 Grade Point Average: Cumulative grade point average may range from 0.00 to
4.00. The scale for points ranges from 0-1.74 (0 points awarded) to 3.75-4.00 (12
points awarded).
B.	 Campus Involvement: The College Activities Office assigns points based on the
level of involvement in college activities, volunteering in the community, teams
and clubs, as recommended by the officers, coaches and advisers. The range of
points is 0-8.
C.	 Disciplinary History: The Office of Student Conduct determines point totals
in this category. If a student has no disciplinary record, he/she will receive more
points than someone who has violated College policies. Range of points varies
from no disciplinary incident (6 points awarded) to suspension from the College (0
points awarded). Students who have received the sanction of Deferred Suspension
or higher, or has been found in violation of the alcohol o drug policy three (3) or
more times may not be eligible for housing the following academic year.
D.	 Residence Area Damages: Points are awarded to each student for not having
any damage to the room or common area of apartment while it is occupied by the
student. If walls are defaced and furniture is broken or missing, points are deducted.
Students are not held responsible for room damages that were previously noted
on their room inspection cards at their time of check-in. (Every resident student is
required to review, make comments on, and sign the room inspection form within
five business days of the official opening of each semester). Range of points is
from 5 points (good condition) to 0 points (poor condition).
E.	 Condition of Residence: Points are assigned based on the condition of the
residence when vacated during college breaks or during periodic health, fire, and
safety inspections. This includes such items as cleanliness of residence, lights
turned off, windows closed, doors locked during vacation breaks, and no cooking
appliances found in the residence. Resident students must appropriately check
out of their residence areas at the end of each semester by deadlines set forth by
the Office of Housing and Residential Life.
	 Resident students may be subject to Improper Check out for any of the following
reasons including, but not limited to: failure to schedule a check-out appointment/
failure to be present at a check-out appointment with a Resident Director or his/her
designee; leaving personal belongings in the residence; and/or failure to conform
to cleanliness standards as set forth by Office of Housing and Residential Life.
It should be noted that resident students who improperly check out from their
respective residences may be subject to a $25.00 fine in addition to a deduction
of priority points. Range of points is from 5 points (good condition) to 0 points
(poor condition).

206







Many factors go into assigning a residence after the freshman year. The important
thing to remember is that each student is in control of his/her total points. If the
student receives good grades, has no disciplinary history, his/her residence is free
from damages, and the student is involved in college clubs and organizations, he/
she is more likely to qualify for the residence or area of his/her choice. All resident
students are guaranteed housing during their first and second years of college.
Any returning upper-class resident student or returning resident transfer student
requiring college housing is eligible to request such housing through the Office
of Housing & Residential Life Residence Selection Process. All students housing
is assigned using the student’s priority point total and the availability of space in
the College’s residence facilities. Based on the number of students requesting
housing for a given semester, some students may not be eligible to receive college
housing. Students enrolled in five year academic programs are not eligible for a
fifth year of housing.
All resident students requesting college housing for the following year must submit
the required residence deposit according to the timelines as stated in the college’s
residence selection process. You must submit the deposit and housing selection
form on time in order to be eligible to participate in the residence selection process.
A residence deposit submitted on time does not automatically qualify a returning
resident student for housing, unless you are a freshmen returning for the second
year. Failure to submit your deposit or housing selection forms on time will result
in students being withdrawn from the housing selection process. To this end, it
is imperative that students, who leave college housing and subsequently secure
their own accommodations within the area, report their local address to both the
Registrar’s Office and the Office of Student Conduct.

Break Housing Policy

During periods when the College is closed and/or during longer break sessions from
classes, all resident students are expected to vacate their residence for the length
of the break. Breaks include Thanksgiving, Winter, Spring, and/or Easter. Dates
and times of breaks will be posted on the Housing and Residential Life website. In
addition, break information memos will be distributed to all students, via campus
mail, outlining break closing procedures. All students are expected to follow proper
break checkout procedures.
Students found in residence without permission will be asked to vacate the campus
immediately and will be referred to the Office of Student Conduct. All policies and
procedures are in effect during breaks. No guests will be permitted in residence areas
during these breaks, including other Marist students not approved for break housing.
Students found in violation of these policies will be referred to the Office of Student
Conduct and may be removed from residence pending conduct action.
A.	 Early arrival requests
	 Students needing to return to campus prior to the official opening of the Fall or
Spring semester, must make this request, in writing, by the deadline stated in
written and/or electronic communication sent to all students by the Office of
Housing and Residential Life or posted on their website. The College sets the
early arrival date. Requests to arrive before that date will be denied. Students
requesting to return early may be assessed an early arrival fee to be paid prior to
arrival. Students in violation of College policies and the early arrival agreement
form may be removed from housing pending student conduct action.
207

B.	 Requests to stay during breaks
	 During short breaks (Thanksgiving and Spring break) students may request to
stay for the break. Travel, on campus employment and internships are reasons
that are commonly honored requests to stay. Not all requests to stay during break
periods will be granted. Requests must be submitted in writing to the Housing
Office (Rotunda 387) or via e-mail at housing@marist.edu. Requests must be
received by the deadline stated in the break housing memo. Requests received after
the deadline will be denied. Students requesting break housing for employment
purposes must provide written documentation from his/her employer.
C.	 Senior Week housing
	 Housing may be made available to residents after the official spring semester
closing and prior to graduation for members of the senior class participating in
senior week activities, students who have registered for summer housing and
student employees of the College. Students not participating in senior week must
request, in writing, to stay in residence by the posted deadline. Students staying
for employment purposes must provide written documentation to the Office of
Housing & Residential Life by the posted deadline. Students may be asked to
relocate from their academic year housing assignment to another area of campus
during that week. Any policy violations may result in immediate removal from
campus housing.
D.	 Summer housing
	 Summer housing is available during the College’s summer session. Priority for
housing will be given to students registered for summer classes (including students
working at internships for College credit) then to on campus student employees
and finally to current students working in the Poughkeepsie area. Proof of course
registration and employment will be required of all students prior to approval
of campus housing. A weekly fee will be assessed to those requesting Summer
housing.
	 During the summer session, all College and Housing & Residential Life policies
and procedures are in effect. Students found in violation of the Code of Student
Conduct will be held accountable. Students found in violation of College policies
may face removal from summer housing as a sanction.
E.	 Winter Intersession housing
	 No students will be permitted to stay in College housing from the end of the Fall
semester to beginning of Winter Intersession. Students taking intersession classes
or working on campus may apply for Winter session housing. Applications will be
available in the Housing Office in early December. A weekly fee will be assessed
to those requesting winter session housing.

Damages

A.	 Residents are not charged for normal wear and tear. Replacement and/or restoration
costs for all room/apartment damage will be assessed to the residents of that area.
In addition, students will be fined 25% of the cost of the repair and/or replacement
for the damage in their area.
B.	 Posters, signs and/or decorations placed where not allowed by fire safety or by
housing regulations will be calculated as damages.
C.	 Damages to areas and furnishings will be assessed throughout the academic year.
Charges will be assigned to individuals for room/apartment damages. Charges
208

for damages to or defacement of any area in common use, such as corridors,
windows, bathrooms, lounges, study areas, elevators, recycling facilities, etc. will
be charged to the responsible individual(s). However, when no specific individuals
are identifiable, charges may be distributed among residents of the area, as floor
charges or house/hall charges.
D.	 Final assessment of room damages and charges will be completed by the College
after the area is vacated. Any appeals of damages/charges must be in writing and
addressed to Housing & Residential Life by the announced deadline.

Individual Privacy and Institutional Rights

A.	 The student’s right to privacy will be respected at all times. However, duly
authorized representatives of the College have the right to enter student rooms
for the purpose of inspections relative to fire, safety, health and the condition of
facilities and furnishings. Students will be notified before normal announced
inspections. Unannounced inspections may occur during emergency situations,
when conditions warrant intervention, or during vacation periods within or following the academic year.
B.	 The Resident Director or his/her designee may enter and inspect student rooms
(including entry by passkey if necessary) without notice if there is a reasonable
presumption of violation of any College regulations. However, a full search of a
student’s room will be conducted when deemed appropriate for serious reasons
in violation of the College’s Code of Student Conduct. A full search will include
(but not be limited to) all desk and dresser drawers, furniture, closets, suitcases,
boxes, lockers or storage areas in the room as well as refrigerators, bedding,
clothing, backpacks, etc. A full search requires special written authorization by
the Vice President of Student or his/her designee.
C.	 Students may not enter another’s room without clear and specific permission.

Safety and Security

Personal Safety
A.	 When leaving one’s room (even for a moment) or sleeping, the door should be
locked. Students are responsible for keeping doors to townhouses, apartments and
suites closed and locked at all times. All guests during the day and evening must
be accompanied by their campus host. Strangers in a building should always be
questioned and/or reported. Marian, Sheahan, Leo, Midrise, Champagnat, and,
Townhouses, have an entrance ID card security system. The system requires the
student to have his/her valid ID card with them at all times.
B.	 The entrances to Marian, Sheahan, Leo, Champagnat and the Midrise residence
facilities are locked from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and an entry officer is on duty
from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Entrance to Marian, Sheahan, Leo, Champagnat, and
Midrise, is gained through the use of the ID card security system. While students
should feel free to invite friends from on or off campus to visit, each must accept
responsibility for his/her guest and cooperate in an effort to prevent and bar
unaffiliated person(s) from gaining access to, or remaining in college facilities.
Students are responsible for carrying their ID card with them at all times and are
not permitted to share it with anyone else.
C.	 All Marist students are expected to swipe in at the Entry Desk with their Marist
ID card. Entry Officers will not be keeping the student ID cards.

209

Resident Freshman Parking

A.	 Freshman are NOT permitted to have a vehicle on campus. Exceptions to this
policy are very limited and rare. Due to the large number of upper-classmen who
bring vehicles to campus, we will have no room for Freshmen vehicles. DO
NOT ASSUME it is permissible to bring a vehicle to campus and then apply for a
parking permit after the vehicle is here. Any student bringing a vehicle to campus
without prior approval will be denied a permit and the vehicle will be booted or
removed immediately. Vehicles not removed will be towed.
B.	 As you plan ahead, be advised that in order to be considered a Sophomore, NYS
Education Law requires you to have 30 or more credits. Students without 30 credits
are NOT eligible for a parking permit. Bringing a vehicle to campus without the
required credits will result in forfeiture of future parking privileges.

Visitation and Guest Policies and Procedures

Marist students are welcomed to entertain other Marist students, off-campus students
or non students in the residence areas as long as it does not infringe on the rights of
the other residents and as long as the student and guest adhere to the Visitation and
Guest Policy outlined below. Roommates/housemates should determine guidelines
for guests and visitors that adhere to College policy and are agreeable to residents
of the room/suite/apartment.
A visitor to a residence area is defined as a Marist College student who is not a
registered resident of that facility.
A guest is defined as a Non-Marist person who is visiting a Marist student.
A host is defined as a student responsible for a guest. The host must accompany the
guest at all times. Failure to do so will result in discipline action.
A.	 Marist students are responsible at all times for the behavior of their guests, and
will be held accountable for any of the guest’s behavior that is in violation of the
Code of Student Conduct.
B.	 Resident first year students who would like to host a guest must register them.
When possible, students are encouraged to register guests prior to their arrival.
Guests are limited to two consecutive night stays per 7 night period.
C.	 All campus guests are limited to two consecutive night stays per 7 night period.
Students found in violation may incur disciplinary or financial responsibility.
D.	 All guests entering first year residence halls must obtain a guest pass to enter the
building.
E.	 Any Marist student hosting a guest must remain with that person for the duration
of the visit.
F.	 For the 2011-2012 academic year no guests will be allowed August 21-September
2, 2011; October 9-14, 2011 and March 4-18, 2012. Also, no guests will be allowed
and 24-hour quiet hours are in effect December 4-16, 2011 and April 29-May 11,
2012.
G.	 Any guest who violates College policy or state and federal laws may be asked to leave
the College immediately. Guests removed from campus are responsible for attaining
their own transportation off-campus. Any guest not capable of safely operating a
motor vehicle must leave by cab or other means of public or private transportation at
their own expense. After investigation of the incident the person may be notified in
writing that he/she is banned from College property until further notice.
210

H.	 Upon the recommendation of the Resident Director, the Office of Safety & Security,
or the Student Conduct Office, guests may be banned from visiting the College.
Procedures for Obtaining a Guest Pass from an Entry Officer
A non-Marist guest must present a photo ID that includes their name, address, and
date of birth.
The guest must list an Emergency Contact Phone Number.
The guest must sign the Guest Registration Form.
The host and guest must be present when applying for a Guest Pass.
GUESTS WITHOUT REQUIRED ID WILL NOT BE ADMITTED.
The Yellow Guest Registration Form must be carried by the guest at all times and
shown to any staff member of the College upon request.
A student is allowed only two non-Marist guests at a time.
All guests must park in the Beck Place lot. A temporary parking permit is not required.
Marist students visiting other Marist students must have a valid ID and swipe in
before being allowed entry (current process).
All hosts are responsible for the conduct of their guests at all times. Guests may be
asked to leave the campus for any breach of security procedures or inappropriate
behavior.
For Residents of Sheahan, Leo, Champagnat and Marian Halls:
Friday and Saturday Nights:
Guest Passes will be given out between 3:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. only at the following locations: entry desks of Leo, Sheahan, Champagnat, and the Security Desk in
Donnelly Hall. Guest passes are also available at the Champagnat Breezeway from
6 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
Sunday through Thursday:
Guest Passes will be issued at the Security Desk in Donnelly Hall between 8:00 a.m.12:00 a.m. and/or at the Entry Desks from 3:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
All guest and visitors must leave by 1:00 a.m.
Exceptions to this will only be granted for college offices sponsoring individuals for
official college visits.
Please Note: The Office of Housing and Residential Life and/or Office of Safety and
Security reserve the right to change Guest Pass Policy at any time.

Fire Safety IN RESIDENCE HALLS

To avoid fire hazards, the College must comply with New York State Fire Code and
will conduct both announced and unannounced fire safety inspections in the residence
areas. College staff may confiscate any items found in violation of College policy,
NYS Fire Code, or the NYS Penal Law. In addition, the following guidelines also
apply:
A.	 Student rooms, corridors, stairwells, common areas and lobbies are:
1.	 To be clear of any obstructions (examples: trunks, suitcases, ironing boards,
athletic equipment, drying wet clothes, furniture, etc.);
2.	 To be free of any flammable material (examples: decorations, posters, notices,
curtains, streamers, etc.)
211

B.	 Both the possession and use of halogen lamps, hot pots, hot plates, broiler ovens,
fry pans, popcorn makers, space/portable heaters, coffee urns, immersion heaters,
toasters (except in townhouse and apartment kitchens), air conditioners and similar
portable equipment are prohibited in all residence areas. Electrical appliance
equipment is restricted to prevent fires and to avoid overload within any facility
that may cause the loss of power to the entire facility or some portion thereof.
Violations of this policy will result in disciplinary action and confiscation of the
appliance.
1.	 Students are permitted one refrigerator (no larger than 3.6 cubic feet and UL
rated) in each room.
2.	 Students in residence halls are permitted one microwave (no larger than 700
watts and UL rated) per room.
3.	 Appliance use in apartments and townhouses are restricted to the kitchen areas
only with the exception of approved refrigerators and microwaves.
C.	 All electrical equipment, when being used, may only plug directly into a wall outlet
or a UL rated surge protector which is plugged into a wall outlet. Possession of
extension cords is not allowed.
D.	 The use of combustible fabrics such as room dividers, closet enclosures, wall and
ceiling tapestries, curtains, etc., is prohibited in student rooms.
E.	 An open flame (candles, blow torches, lanterns, etc.) is not permitted anywhere in
the residence areas. Use of incense is also prohibited. Candles are not permitted
even for decoration purposes and will be confiscated by College staff.
F.	 Fire doors in the corridors must remain closed at all times. No one may prop the
doors open. Students are not to tamper with smoke and heat detector devices in
residence areas, illuminated exit signs, fire department stand pipe connections,
fire alarms, pull station covers and fire extinguishers. Failure to adhere to these
policies will likely result in Residence Hall Dismissal.
G.	 If a fire extinguisher needs to be recharged, the student should contact his/her
Resident Director or the Office of Safety & Security.
H.	 Students are permitted to use portable barbecue grills on college grounds only if
proper safety precautions are observed. No barbecue grill is allowed to be used
or stored within 20 feet of any structure, overhang or inside a building.
I.	 Violation of the Fire Safety Policy as it applies to appliances, extension cords etc.
will result in student conduct sanctions. Subsequent violations will result in more
serious disciplinary action.

Dining Plan

A.	 All students residing in college housing are assigned a resident dining plan
prior to their arrival on campus. Students have the option to change their dining
plan selection within certain parameters according to their residence location as
determined by the College. Dining Plan changes must be made at the Office of
Housing and Residential Life by the second Friday of the semester. Should a
student withdraw from resident housing, the cost of his or her dining plan will be
refunded accordingly.
B.	 If a student on the Resident Dining Plan is sick and/or injured and is unable to eat
in the dining hall, a friend will be able to obtain a meal for the student from the
dining hall. The friend of the sick and/or injured student must pick up the meal
and bring it to the student.
212

C.	 If a student requests to be removed from the College’s Dining Plan due to
special dietary restrictions, the student must meet with the Director of Housing
& Residential Life who will review the request with the student and the General
Manager of Dining Services.

Laundry Facilities
The Office of Housing & Residential Life is not responsible for items lost or damaged
while using laundry machines. Report any non-operating machines to your Resident
Director. Any damage to machines from tampering will be billed to all residents of that
particular area. To view machine availability, log on to http://www.laundryview.com.
Sustainable Practices at Marist College
Please do your part to Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. For more information about
Marist recycling, visit our website at http://www.marist.edu/campuslife/recycle.
Maintenance Requests
The College’s Physical Plant Office is responsible for maintaining college facilities.
Students are expected to keep their residence areas in good condition. Damages due to
neglect or vandalism will cause a delay in allowing the Physical Plant staff to attend
to routine maintenance requests. Any student who needs to request maintenance
work and resides in a first-year residence area (Leo, Sheahan, and Champagnat)
should contact his/her Resident Director or Resident Assistant. Any student who
needs to request maintenance work and resides in all other college housing facilities
should email the Physical Plant Office at maintenance@marist.edu. In the event
of an emergency call directly at Ext. 2255. During evenings and weekends contact
Security at x2282.
Resident Hall Posting and Distribution Policy
All internal campus posters and flyers for posting or distributing must first be approved
by either the Office of College Activities or the Office of Housing & Residential Life.
No advertisements for alcohol or pictures depicting drinking or anything deemed “not
in good taste” or not in accordance with Marist rules and regulations are allowed. Any
unauthorized poster or flyer found in residence areas will be removed by college staff.
After an event, organizations are responsible for removing flyers that had been posted.
213
